BULLIDAE 277 

Fa7mly DIAPHANIDAE 
Genus Diaphiina Brown 1827 

Diaphana minuta Brown Arctic Paper-bubble 

Figure 59b 

Arctic Seas to Connecticut. Europe. 

3 to 5 mm. in length, globose, thin, fragile, and transparent-tan in color. 
Last whorl globose below, constricted somewhat above. Apex large, globose, 
obliquely and mammillarly projecting. Suture deep. Columella long, straight, 
not thickened, the edge partly closing the narrow umbilicus. Moderately 
common from 6 to 16 fathoms. Diaphana debilis Gould, D. hiemalis Couthouy and D. globosa Loven are considered synonyms of this species by 
Lemche (1948) and other modern workers. 

Family BULLIDAE 
Genus Bulla Linne 1758 

The names Vesica Swainson 1840 and Bullaria Rafinesque 18 15 have been 
ill-advisably used for this genus. Fortunately, the name Bulla has been 
conserved for this group of bubble-shells by the International Commission 
for Zoological Nomenclature. 

Bulla striata Bruguiere Striate Bubble 

Plate 13P 

West coast of Florida to Texas and the West Indies. 

% to I inch in length, similar to occidentalis, but larger, heavier, and 
with the spiral grooves well-marked toward the base of the shell and within 
the apical perforation. The whorls are compressed at the apical end. Columella usually with a brown-stained callus. Locally common. B. amygdala 
Brug. is probably a smooth form of this species. 

Bulla occidentalis A. Adams Common West Indian Bubble 

Plate 26p 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

V2 to I inch in length, smooth, varying from fragile to quite strong, 
and from cylindrical (young) to fairly swollen. Apex deeply and narrowly 
perforate. Color very variable, but usually whitish with mottlings, zebra 
stripes and obscure bands of brown. Surface with numerous, microscopic 
striations. This is a very common bubble-shell which is found most easily 
at night and at low tide on grassy, mud flats. The author is often misnamed 
as "C. B. Adams." 



278 America}! Se ash ells 

Bulla gouldiana Pilsbry 

Santa Barbara to the Gulf of California. 


