


188 



Am eric ail Se ash ells 



smooth and narrowly channeled. Shell smooth, yellowish white and covered 
with a thin, yellowish brown periostracum which flakes off when dry. Umbilicus absent or a very slight slit. Operculum paucispiral, horny, translucentbrown and with microscopic, spiral lines. A moderately common, cold-water 
species found just offshore down to 70 fathoms. 

Its counterpart, A. purpurea Dall, common in Alaska, is very similar, but 
% inch in length and with a greenish and darker periostracum. 



Oldroyd's Fragile Moon-slieli 

Figure 4^^Genus Eunaticina Fischer 1885 
Eunaticina oldroydi Dall 

Oregon to San Diego, California. 

1/4 to iVi inches in length, resembling Lunatia leivisi, but much lighter 
in weight, with a more pointed spire, without the heavy, brownish callus and 
having, instead, the upper part of the columella expanded into a white, thin 
area which partially obscures the umbilicus. Micro-sculpturing on shell exterior is prominent. Moderately common; dredged offshore 30 to 70 fathoms. 




Figure 43. a, Polifiices draconis Dall, 2 inches (Pacific Coast); b, Natica clausa 

Bred, and Sby., i inch (Arctic waters); c, Jjiimtia pallida Bred, and Sby., 1^-2 

inches (Arctic waters); d, Lamellaria diegoensis Dall, Y^ irich ( Calif oi-nia); e, 

Eunaticina oldroydi Dall, 2 inches (Pacific Coast). 



NATICIDAE 189 

Genus Lunatia Gray 1847 
Lunatia beros Say Common Northern Moon-shell 

Figure 22a 

Gulf of St. Lawrence to off North Carolina. 

2 to 4% inches in length, not so wide; globular in shape; umbilicus deep, 
round, not very large, and only slightly covered over by a thickening of the 
columellar wall. Color dirty-white to brownish gray. Aperture glossy, whitish or with tan or purplish brown stains. Periostracum thin, hght yellowbrown. Operculum corneous, light-brown and thin. A very common intertidal species in the New England area. The t^^ case is a wide, circular ribbon 
of sand, about the thickness of an orange peel and easily bent when damp. 
The tiny eggs are embedded in the ribbon. 

