Atlantic Cleft Clam 



Nova Scotia to south half of Florida and the West Indies. 

/4 to /4 inch in length, oblong, fragile and translucent-white. Hinge 
weak and with only a very long, weak posterior lateral. Posterior slope of 
shell with 2 strong, radial waves or rounded grooves. Moderately common 
in dredgings from 15 to 90 fathoms on sandy bottom, 

Thyasira gouldi Philippi (Labrador to off North Carohna) is similar, but 
only % inch in size, almost round but slightly higher, and with a weak yellowish periostracum. The hinge lacks teeth. Common offshore to 60 fathoms. Called Gould's Cleft Clam. 






Figure 77. Pacific Cleft Clams, a, Thyasira bis e eta Conrad, i inch (Pacific 
Coast); b and c, Thyasira excavata Dall, % inch (Gulf of California). 



Thyasira bisecta Conrad Pacific Cleft Clam 

Figure 77a 

Alaska to Oregon. 

I to 1/4 inches in length, almost square in side view and moderately 
obese. Characterized by the almost vertical, straight, anterior end which is 
90 degrees to the dorsal margin. Ligament long and narrow and flush with 
the dorsal margin of the shell. There is a deep, prominent radial furrow on 
the exterior running posteriorly from the beaks. Shell chalky-white, comLUCINIDAE 385 

monly with a thin, yellowish gray periostracum. Irregular coarse growth 
hnes present. Uncommon from 4 to 139 fathoms. Closely related to T. disjuncta Gabb, if not that species. 

Fainily LUCINIDAE 
Genus Li^cina Bruguiere 1797 

Shell orbicular, strong and laterally compressed. Cardinal teeth small, 
obscure in the adults, but the laterals are well-developed. The use of Lucina 
here is based on Anton's designation of pensylvanica Linne as the genotype. 
The genus Linga Gregorio is this genus. 

Subgenus Lucijia s. str. 
Lucina pensylvanica Linne Pennsylvania Lucina 

Plate 38h 
North Carolina to south Florida and the West Indies. 

I to 2 inches in length, ovate, usually quite inflated. Concentric ridges 
very delicate and distinct. Color pure-white with a thin yellowish periostracum. Lunule heart-shaped, well-marked and raised at the center. The furrow from the beak to the posterior ventral edge of the valve is very pronounced. Beachworm specimens become smooth and shiny-white. The 
species name was incorrectly spelled by Linne. Moderately common in shallow water. 

Subgenus Here Gabb 1866 
Lucina sonibrereiisis Dall Sombrero Lucina 

