accounts of encounters with octopus on exposed tidal reefs, and a few observers state that the octopus can keep up with a man in a brisk walk. 

Even more astounding than the locomotive powers of the cephalopods 
are their amazing displays of bright, glowing lights and color changes. The 
shallow-water species have embedded in their skin chromatophores whose 
expansion and contraction are controlled by the nervous system. Emotion, 
excitation or response to the color of surrounding objects will effect the 
color changes in the octopus. Among the deep-water squid, many of which 
are phosphorescent, gorgeous underwater pyrotechnics are frequently displayed which far outshine the brightest of fireflies and glowworms. Specimens 
of Lycoteuthis brought up from considerable depths and kept alive in chilled 
water have had their photographs taken by their own light. The body looks 
as if it were adorned by a diadem of brilliant gems. The middle organs of 
the eyes shine with ultramarine blue, the lateral ones with a pearly sheen. 
Those toward the front of the lower surface of the body give out a ruby-red 
light, while those behind are snow-white or pearly, with the exception of 
the middle organ which is sky-blue. Some squid have astonishingly complex bull's-eye lanterns; others have mirrored searchlights. A species of Heteroteuthis is able to spurt out a luminous secretion from its funnel and the 
jet of water following it draws out the bright globules into long, shining 
threads. 

The sexes in the cephalopods are separate, except for two or three 
isolated examples. In most of the species females are much more numerous, 
the ratio of females to males being loo to 15 in some species of the Loligo 
squid and 100 to 25 in some of the Octopus. The most outstanding feature 
is the morphological differences between the two sexes. In the Argonauta 
or Paper Nautilus, the females are 10 to 15 times as large as the males which 
completely lack the beautiful shell used by females for storing eggs. The 



50 American Seashells 

female also differs in having its two dorsal arms enlarged at the end to form 
a veil or mold with which she secretes a shell. In a vast number of species, 
the males are characterized by having one of the arms modified to form a 
copulatory organ. This arm is known as the hectocotylus. In certain octopods, including the Argonauta, this arm is broken off and left in the female 
to fertilize the eggs. In all the other groups the hectocotylus is simply held 
inside the female until copulation is complete. It is interesting to note that 
more than 2000 years ago Aristotle recorded the presence of the hectocotylus arm in the octopus and correctly associated it with its sexual purpose. 

In the males the sperm is gathered into large sacs or spermatophores 
of several inches in length. These sacs find their way in some unknown 
manner into the hectocotylus arm. Each sac contains a tiny, coiled, springlike filament which spews the ripe sperm out of the sac. 

The eggs of the cephalopods are laid in various ways. They may be 
single and floating in the pelagic species, such as Oegopsida, congregated 
together in a shelly nest as in Argonmita, laid in jelly tubes as in the Loligo 
squid, or anchored in grape-like bunches under rock ledges as in the Octopus. The embryo emerges from the tgg fully developed and does not have 
a free veliger stage. With the aid of a lens it is possible to see the beautiful 
splotches of bright chromatophores in the skin of the tiny young even before 
they hatch. About a hundred eggs are laid at one sitting by the octopus; 
the squid tgg strings from one female may contain over 40,000 eggs. Some 
species of octopuses take pains to watch over their brood of eggs and from 
time to time may carefully go over them with their tentacles to remove dirt. 

THE CHn01<iS—AMPHINEURA

Amateurs and professionals alike have found the chitons or coat-of-mail 
shells an extremely interesting and fruitful field of study, and no collection 
is complete without at least three or four representatives of this strange 
group of mollusks. The chitons closely resemble the gastropods except that 
