found from low water to 40 fathoms from southern Florida to the West 
Indies, is less than y-> inch in length, white, twice as fat, and with longer 
denticulations at the end of the 12 to 15 radial ribs. Uncommon, except off 
Miami where it is commonly dredged. 

Subjamily FRAGINAE 
Genus Trig07iwcardia Dall 1900 

Trigojiiocardia media Linnc Atlantic Strawberry Cockle 

Plate 39m 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 



CARDIIDAE 399 

I to 2 inches in size, squarish in outline, thick, inflated, with 33 to 36 
strong radial ribs which are covered with close-set, chevron-shaped plates. 
External color whitish with mottlings of reddish brown. Interior usually 
white, or may be flushed with orange, rose-brown or purple. The posterior 
slope is pushed in somewhat and is slightly concave. A relatively common 
species found in shallow to moderately deep water. 

The Western Strawberry Cockle, T. biangiilata Sowerby, is the Californian counterpart of the above species. It is iVi inches in length, with 
about 30 strong ribs; exterior yellowish white, interior reddish purple. 
Moderately common. 

Subjavnly PROTOCARDIINAE 
Genus Nemocardium Meek 1876 

Nemocardhnn centifilomin Carpenter Hundred-lined Cockle 

Alaska to Lower California. 

% to % inch in length, almost circular; posterior third of shell with 
cancellate sculpturing and separated from the finely ribbed anterior two 
thirds of the shell by a single raised rib. Edge minutely serrate. Exterior 
with gray, greenish gray or brownish gray, thin, fuzzy periostracum. Interior dull- white. Fairly common. 

Genus Microcardiwn Thiele 1934 

Microcardiwn peramabile Dall Eastern Micro-cockle 

Rhode Island to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% to % inch in length, thin, inflated, subquadrate, white, but may be 
mottled tan on the anterior slope. Sculpture prominent on the posterior 
third of the valve. It consists of about 90 closely packed, radial ribs (spinose 
posteriorly) which are crossed by minute concentric threads. The anterior 
two thirds is separated from the rest of the shell by a single, crested, spinose, 
radial rib. Very commonly dredged off eastern Florida. 

Microcardium tinctu?n Dall, found with the above species, is % inch 
in length, stained with rose-red and has more than 150 minute, radial ribs. 
Uncommon. 

Siibjainily LAEVICARDIINAE 
Genus Laevicardimn Swainson 1840 
