2 to 4 inches in length, very elongate, slightly curved. Beaks rounded 
and about one-eighth the length from the anterior end; a strongly marked 
angle occurs from the beaks to the base of the posterior extremity; numerous 
vertical, wavy ribs over all the shell. Color a shiny chestnut-brown. Common. 

Botula californiensis Philippi Californian Date Mussel 

Plate 29h 

I to 1^4 inches in length, elongate, curved and smooth, except for a 
velvety, hair-like covering over the posterior end. Shiny, chocolate-brown 
in color. Moderately common. 

Genus Lioberus Dall 1898 
Lioberus castaneus Say Say's Chestnut Mussel 

Both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, oval-elongate, well-inflated and thin-shelled. Exterior 
chestnut- to dark-brown, the anterior half glossy, the posterior half dull 
and commonly with a fine grayish matting of periostracum. Interior bluish 
white and with an irregular surface. Hinge simple with a slight swelling or 
pad under the beaks. Moderately common in shallow water. 

Botula fusca Gmelin from North Carolina to southeast Florida (rare) 
and the West Indies (common) is similar, but distinguished by its longer, 
hooked or arcuate shape, by the thick, concentric ridges on the outside, by 
the more anteriorly placed beaks, and by the tiny, vertical threads on the 
hinge just posterior to the ligament. Attached in clusters to wood and 
rocks. 

Genus Lithophaga Roding 1798 
Lithophaga nigra Orbigny Black Date Mussel 

Plate 2 8in 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

I to 2 inches in length, elongate and cylindrical. Black-brown outside 
and an iridescent bluish white inside. Anterior lower third of each valve 



MYTILIDAE 357 

with strong, vertical, smooth ribs; remainder of shell smoothish with only 
irregular growth lines. Commonly found boring into soft coral blocks. 

Lithophaga antillanim Orbigny Giant Date Mussel 

Plate 28k 

Gulf of Mexico and the West Indies. 

2 to 4 inches in length, elongate, cylindrical and colored a light yellowish brown on the outside and iridescent cream inside. Sides of valves marked 
with numerous, irregular, vertical riblets. Fairly common in soft rocks in 
moderately deep water. 

Subgenus Myoforceps P. Fischer 1886 
Lithophaga aristata Dillwyn Scissor Date Mussel 
