Plate 25X 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

% to I inch in length, slender, with 7 whorls. Aperture long and narrow. Varix strong and curled back. Parietal shield elevated into a collar. 



BUCCINIDAE 23 3 

Former distinct varices present every % of a whorl. Sculpture very finely 
cancellate and beaded. Nucleus brown, smooth and bulbous. Shell ash-gray 
with occasional orange-brown smudges. Uncommonly dredged on rocky 
bottom just ofi'shore. 

Colubraria test ace a Morch from Tortugas and the West Indies is % 
to 1% inches in length, fatter, with numerous, small beads and with wider 
varices. C. sivifti Tryon (subgenus Monostiohnn Dall), also from the West 
Indies, is % inch long, without former varices, axially ribbed and heavily 
maculated with brown. Both are uncommon. 



Genus Pisania Bivona-Bernardi 1832 
Fisania pusio Linne Miniature Triton Trumpet 

Plate 13-0 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

I to 1% inches in length, sturdy, smooth, and usually with a glossy 
finish. The outer lip is weakly toothed within, and the upper parietal wall 
has a small, white, swollen tooth near the top of the aperture. Color variable, 
but usually purplish brown with narrow spiral bands of irregular dark and 
light spots commonly chevron-shaped. Moderately common below lowwater line in the region of coral reefs. 

Genus Cantharus Roding 1798 
Subgenus Pollia Sowerby 1834 

Cantharus tmctits Conrad Tinted Cantharus 

Plate 25y 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

% to I /4 inches in length, heavy, spire evenly conic; aperture with a 
small canal at the top. Axial ribs low and weak. Spiral cords numerous and 
weak, forming weak beads as they cross the ribs. Inside of outer lip with 
small teeth which are strongest near the top. Color of shell variegated with 
yellow-brown, blue-gray and milky-white. Fairly common in shallow water. 
The young are easily confused with Thais. See remarks under T. rustica, 
p. 214. 

Cantharus auritula Link Gaudy Cantharus 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

Similar to C. tinctus, but broader, with shouldered whorls, with about 
9 stronger axial ribs per whorl and with about 10 sharp spiral threads on 

