gigantic squid have wrapped their arms about the riggings and dragged ship 
and hapless crew to the bottom. 

But despite the fanciful nature of most, if not all, of these stories, there 
arc enough scientific facts to convince the skeptic of the ferocity, speed 
and unusual intelligence of these creatures. Canadian and American fishermen have long been familiar with giant squid and have often captured 

46 



Lives of the Other Mollusks 47 

crippled individuals and used them for bait. A number of these giants have 
been brought into museums, and others, stranded on beaches after storms, 
have been measured and recorded by reliable observers. Architeuthis of the 
North Atlantic waters is know^n to reach a total length of 55 feet. The 
longest arms of this specimen are 3 5 feet, while the length of the body from 
tip of tail to the base of the arms is 20 feet. The greatest circumference 
of the body is 1 2 feet. Sperm whales which feed upon smaller squid have 
often been locked in battle with these giants. The skin of these whales is 
sometimes heavily marked with circular scars caused by the suckers of the 
squid. 

The octopus does not reach a very large size. The largest known species 
occurs on the west coast of North America where, in Alaska, Octopus 
punctatus attains a length of 16 feet or a radial spread of nearly 28 feet. 
However, the arms are very small in diameter, and a specimen of such long 
proportions has a body length of not more than a foot. The octopus occasionally found in the Lower Florida Keys is usually less than three feet 
in radial spread. A dead specimen cast on a beach near Nassau, Bahama 
Islands, was reported to have an arm length of five feet, and it was estimated 
that the entire creature weighed about 200 pounds. This, however, is without verification. Recent reports of octopus holes 100 feet across seen in 
the Bahamas from the air were made by untrained observers. There is no 
satisfactory evidence that any of these species of Octopus has ever intentionally attacked man, or that any person has ever been seriously injured 
by one. The octopus is a rather sluggish and timid creature, seeking shelter in 
holes and crevices among the rocks, and is usually small. It feeds mainly on bivalve mollusks but will also eat snails, fish and Crustacea. Its hideouts along the 
shore can usually be detected by the presence of empty shells. 

Locomotion among the cephalopods varies from a slow, "tentacle-walking" pace, both in and out of water, to the rapid, jet-propulsion darts which 
are so characteristic of the squid. The so-called aerial "flight" of squid, like 
that of the flyingfish, is actually a gliding operation and largely depends 
upon the initial speed attained under water. Squid have frequently landed 
on the decks of ships a dozen or more feet above the surface of the ocean. 
When a school of squid is alarmed by an approaching ship or by marauding 
fish, the fleeing squid dart from the water simultaneously and all in one 
direction rather than individually fanning out in several directions in the 
manner of flying fish. 

The squid darts backward, forward, or in any other direction by means 
of the reaction of the jet of water which is ejected with great force from 
the siphon, and direction of movement is controlled by the bending of the 
siphon. Even when it is confined to a limited space, as in a fishpound, it is 
not an easv matter to capture it with a dip-net, so rapid is its movement. 



48 American Se ash ells 

When it is darting rapidly, the lobes of the caudal fin are closely wrapped 
around the body, and the arms are held tightly together to form a streamlined 
