
% to % inch in length, low, with ends turned slightly up. Apical hole 
elongate-oval, located at the center of the shell and about % the length of 
the shell. Numerous radial and concentric threads give a fine cancellate sculpturing. Color dark-gray to light-brown with a wide, darker ray on each side 
of the hole, and occasionally at each end. Interior white to grayish. Animal 
several times as large as the shell, variable in color — red, yellow or white. 
Common under stones at low tide. 



100 American Seashells 

Subfamily FISSURELLINAE 

Genus Fissurella Bruguiere 1789 

Subgenus Creviides H. and A. Adams 1854 

Fissurella nodosa Born Knobby Keyhole Limpet 

Plate I yd 

Lower Florida Keys and the West Indies. 

I to 1% inches in length. 20 to 22 strongly nodulated, radial ribs. Margin sharply crenulated. Interior pure-white. Orifice oblong. An intertidal 
rock-dweller. Uncommon in Florida and the Bahamas; abundant in the West 
Indies. 

Fissurella barhadensis Gmelin Barbados Keyhole Limpet 

Plate lyf 

Southeast Florida, Bermuda and the West Indies. 

I to 1/4 inches in length. With irregular radiating ribs. Orifice almost 
round. Inside with green and whitish concentric bands. Border of orifice 
deep-green with a reddish-brown line. Outside grayish white to pinkish buff, 
generally with purplish lines between the small ribs. Commonly blotched 
with purple-brown. Lives on wave-dashed rocks. Common. 

A similar, rather rare species, F. angusta Gmelin, also intertidal and frequently covered with calcareous algae, occurs on the Florida Keys. The 
shell is flattish, pointed in front, and its internal callus is light-brown to reddish brown, but not bounded by a reddish line as in barbadensis, 

Fissurella rosea Gmelin Rosy Keyhole Limpet 

Plate I ye 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies to Brazil. 

I inch in length, thin, flattish, narrower at the anterior end. Orifice 
slightly oblong. Many radiating, small, rounded riblets. Color of alternating 
whitish to pale-straw and pinkish rays. Interior pale-green at the margins, 
blending to white in the center. Green orifice callus bordered by a pinkish 
line. Common in beach drift. Do not confuse with the larger, more elevated 
F. barbadensis. 

Fissurella volcano Reeve Volcano Limpet 

Plate 1 8c 

