long, whitish ridge, one inside the aperture, the other on the body whorl. 
Posterior end of columella sometimes slightly swollen. A common species 
which attaches itself and its tiny egg-capsules to purple or yellow seafans. 

Neosivmia iiniplicata Sowerby Single-toothed Simnia 

Plate 76 

Virginia to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

V'2 to % inch in length, similar to acicularis, but with only the innermost, 
longitudinal ridge on the columella, and with a twisted, spiral plication at the 
posterior end of the columella. Moderately common on seafans. 

'Neosimnia piragua Dall Dall's Treasured Simnia 

Plate ^i 
Between Jamaica and Haiti. 

I inch in length, extremely narrow, with the ends greatly produced. 
Columella area bordered by two longitudinal ridges, the inner one tinted with 
rose. Remainder of shell yellowish white. One of the rarest of the Western 
Atlantic mollusks. 23 fathoms. 



OVULIDAE 183 

Neosimnia avena Sowerby Western Chubby Simnia 

Plate 7g 

Monterey, California, to Panama. 

/4 inch in length, oblong, with short extremities. Lower end of the 
aperture wide, upper end narrow where the columella has a spiral swelling. 
Inner and lower part of the columella with a long, light-colored ridge. Exterior of whorls with numerous, microscopic, wavy, incised scratches. Color 
mauve to deep-rose with the varix and extremities a lighter pink. Rare in 
California, uncommon southward. 5. smilis Sowerby is probably this species. 

Neosimnia loebbeckeana Weinkauff Loebbeck's Simnia 

Plate yi 

Monterey, California, to the Gulf of California. 

% inch in length, translucent yellowish, rather fragile, and fusiform in 
shape with the extremities narrow and the middle gently swollen. Columella 
rounded, usually smoothish, but sometimes with a hint of flattening and subsequent thickening of the lower part of the columella. Upper end of the 
columella with a weak, spiral fold. Two subspecies have been described 
{barbarefisis Dall and catalinensis Berry) but their distinctiveness has not 
been clearly demonstrated as yet. Not uncommonly dredged in association 
with seafans from 20 to 50 fathoms. 

NeosiTtmia inflexa Sowerby Inflexed Simnia 

Plate 7h 

Monterey, California, to Panama. 

