


Family PLEUROBRANCHIDAE 

Genus Fleiirobranchiis Cuvier 1805 

Subgenus Siisania Gray 1857 

Pleurobranchus atlanticus Abbott Atlantic Pleurobranch 

Figure 61 

Southeast Florida (and the West Indies?). 

I % to 2 inches in length. Mantle with U-shaped notch in front where 
two tube-like rhinophores protrude up. Dorsum or back with numerous 
small rounded warts. Color yellowish orange with irregular splotches of deep 
maroon-brown. Largest warts translucent pale-yellow with a chocolate ring 
around the base. Some tipped with chalk-white. Foot pale-yellow to orangPLEUROBRANCHIDAE 



287 



ish. Gill plume on right side of body, with 20 to 22 primary leaflets on each 
side, with a nodule on the main stem where they originate. Primary leaflets 
with 1 5 smaller leaflets, each of which has 5 to i o microscopic plates. Shell 




Figure 61. Pleiirobranchus atlmiticits Abbott, i V2 inches. 2 and 3, entire animal; 
4, rhinophore; 5, cross-section of velum; 6, genitalia; 7, details of gill plume; 8, 
shell; 9, radula; 10, platelets in mandibles. (From R. T. Abbott 1949, Nautilus 

vol. 62.) 

small, calcareous, pinkish white, flat with a small spire, and located under the 
dorsum. Moderately common in shallow water in winter on Soldier Key, 
near Miami. Originally collected by F. M. Bayer, P. gardineri White is a 
synonym. 



288 American Seashells 

Superjamily PYRAMIDELLACEA 
Family PYRAMIDELLIDAE 

This is a well-known family of very small gastropods which are extremely baffling to novices attempting to identify any one of the several hundred so-called species. Even among the experts there is not always agreement 
on what constitutes a species, subgenus or genus in this group. It would be 
impossible to present in a book this siz^e even an account of only the most 
common species. Those interested in delving into this interesting maze of 
species are referred to the works of Bartsch, W. H. Dall and K. Bush. 

The recent work of Fretter and Graham has shown that the Pyrams are 
ectoparasites, with each species feeding on a particular host, usually a tubicolous polychaete worm or a bivalve mollusk. The Pyrams attach themselves 
