Figure 28. \'arious types of bivalve hinges, a, Arcidae {Noetia poiuierosa Say); 
b, Spondvlidae {Spondyhis); c, Cardiidae {Dinocardhnn vanhyiiingi Clench and 
Smith); d, Veneridae (Tivela stidtonim Mawe); e, Veneridae (Callocardia texasiaiia Dall); f, Lucinidae {Phacoides anmdatiis Reeve); g, Mactridae {Mactra alata 
Spengler); h, Tellinidae {TelUiia idae Dall); i, Carditidae (Veiiericardia); j, A4actridae {Ra7igia); k, Crassatellidae (Crassmella himdata Conrad); 1, Periplomatidae 
(Periploma discus Stearns); m, Corbulidae (Corbida). 



84 Ai?] eric an Se ash ells 

possesses a number of useful identification features. The large muscles which 
serve to close the valves leave round impressions on the surface. When two 
muscles are present, as in the venus, lucine, tellin and other clams, they are 
known as the anterior and posterior muscle scars respectively. The fine, 
single-lined impression produced by the muscular edge of the mantle is 
known as the pallial line. The pallial line may have a U-shaped notch at 
the posterior end of the valve indicating the presence of a siphon and its 
siphonal muscles. This is known as the pallial sinus. It is entirely absent in 
genera possessing no retractile siphons. 

The hinge. This is one of the most important identification features 
in the bivalves, and often many hours of fruitless search can be avoided 
when the major types of hinges and their various parts are understood. 
There are many types of hinges from those without teeth {edentulous) to 
those with a complex pattern. We have figured below some of the major 
types of hinges. The teeth are distinguished as cardinals, or those immediately below the umbo, and the laterals, or those on either side of the cardinals. In many inequilateral bivalves the teeth have become so distorted or 
set out of place that it is often difficult to distinguish the cardinals from the 
laterals or to determine which ones are absent. We have labeled the teeth 
in several groups in the systematic section of this book to overcome this 
difficulty. In Chanm, for instance, the cardinals have been pushed up into 
the umbo and have become a mere ridge, while the strong anterior lateral 
has become nearly central and simulates a cardinal. 

Sculpture. In many groups, such as the scallops (Pecten), sculpture is 
of paramount importance in determining species. In most other groups it is 
used in conjunction with other characters. There are two major types of 
sculpture — concentric and radial — and both of these may be present in many 
forms, such as ridges, ribs, nodules, spines, foliaceous processes (leaf-like), 
threads, beads, indented striae (fine lines), etc. Concentric growth lines of 
varying degree of development are seen on most bivalves. They are always 
parallel to the margins of the valves, may be exceedingly fine or very coarse, 
and they generally indicate former growth and resting stages. Radial sculpture, running from the umbones to the lower or end margins of the valves, 
is exemplified in the ribs of Cardium (pi. 32), Pectejj (pi. 33) and others. 
Concentric and radial sculpture may occur together to form a cancellate 
sculpture as in Chione cancellata (pi. 39h). In a few genera, such as Foromya, the valve's surface may be granulose, as if finely sugar-coated. 

The periostracum or protective chitinous sheath overlaying the exterior 
of the valves is present in most bivalves. It may be extremely thin and transparent so that it imparts a high gloss to the shell, or it may be thick and 
matted or even very coarse and stringy so that the valves appear to be 
bearded, as in Volsella and Area. 



Houo to Know Afjierican Seashells 85 

NAMES AND NOMENCLATURE 

In order to discuss the various kinds of moUusks, we must use standardized names which are understood or recognized by students in every part 
of the world. For this reason, Latin names, or latinized forms, are employed 
as the official medium for nomenclature. It is not at all necessary to have a 
