Figure 9. Gastropod tgg cases. 



28 American Seashells 

males usually occupy positions in the vicinity of the female and move to the 
mating position at night. Occasionally bachelors are found which either by 
chance or choice remain solitary throughout the entire male phase. 

Soon after hatching from the tgg, and in one species (Crepidula adunca 
Sowerby from Panama) even before hatching, a slender copulatory organ, 
the verge or phallus, grows out from the body behind the right tentacle (fig. 
7), As the female phase develops later in life, the verge begins to shrink and 
is finally absorbed as the female organs take form. Associated with these 
changes is a marked alteration in behavior, whereby the wandering individual, which was so characteristically masculine when young, now becomes 
strictly sedentary. She receives her mate, lays her eggs in capsules beneath 
her foot and broods her young until they are prepared for their own independence. 

In our Common Slipper Shell, Crepidula fornicata, those individuals 
which live on muddy bottoms where there are no solid objects to which 
they can attach themselves, frequently pile up in groups of six to twelve or 
more. These groups continue from year to year, newly arrived young in the 
male phase attaching themselves to the top of the pile as the old, femalephase individuals die at the bottom. 

Most marine prosobranchs, however, are of separate sexes (dioecious or 
unisexual). While some species in which the sex products of both sexes are 
discharged freely into the water have no outward morphological features, 
there are a great number of gastropods in which the male has an external 
copulatory organ or verge. The shape and position of the verge are often 
used in classifying families, genera or species. 

Depending upon the species, and sometimes the genus, the females take 
care of their young in a variety of ways. In some there is no motherly 
instinct, and the eggs are liberated directly into the water where they float 
away on the chance of being fertilized by the free-swimming sperm from a 
nearby male. (See fig. 9 with Tectarms and Littorina.) In other types the 
eggs are fertilized and undergo development to the adult-like form in the 
uterine portion of the oviduct. Others have developed a kangeroo-like pouch 
in the tissues of their back where the young are allowed to develop to the 
adult form. Once liberated, however, the young do not return to the pouch. 
Viviparity or the giving birth to young alive (technically ovoviviparity) is 
known in Planaxis, Littorina saxatilis and a number of fresh-water species in 
several different families. 



The Egg Cases of Snails 

Among a large proportion of the marine gastropods, the females form 
special egg cases or capsules into which the eggs are placed, and where the 



Life of the Snails 29 

eggs may develop in an undisturbed, food-laden medium. Very frequently 
extra eggs (nurse eggs) are added which serve as food for the young that 
hatch first. The young may emerge from the egg cases as miniature replicas 
of their parents and commence a life of crawling and feeding, or they may 
