
I to i^ inches in length, rather circular, inflated, and characterized by 
strong, raised, lamellate, concentric ribs between which are 5 or 6 smaller, 
raised concentric ridges. Lunule heart-shaped, well-impressed, bordered by 
a fine, deep line, and crossed by numerous raised threads. Escutcheon wellformed, smoothish. Color cream to whitish with light-mauve mottlings. 
Very uncommon. 

Antigona rigida Dillwyn from the West Indies is very similar, but 
not nearly so obese, and its concentric ridges are stronger and smoother. 

^^Chiojiid" Group 

Ovate-trigonal, inequilateral, sculpture usually cancellate; lunule impressed. Inner margins usually crenulate. Teeth strong, without the tiny, 
pimple-like anterior lateral. Pallial sinus short. This section or group is 



406 Ainerican Seashells 

considered by some to be of family or subfamily rank. See Frizzell and Myra 
Keen. 

Genus Mercenaria Schumacher 1817 

The Hard-shell Clams or Quahogs belong to this genus. The shell is 
large and thick; lunule large, heart-shaped and bounded by an incised line. 
Inner margin crenulate. 3 cardinals in each valve. Left middle cardinal 
split. Formerly placed in the genus Venus many years ago, but almost 
universally placed in a genus by itself by modern workers. 

Mercenaria mercenaria Linne Northern Quahog 

Plate 32h 

Gulf of St. Lawrence to Florida and the Gulf of Mexico. 
Introduced to Humboldt Bay, California. 

3 to 5 inches in length, ovate-trigonal, about % as high, heavy and quite 
thick. Moderately inflated. Sculpture of numerous, concentric lines of 
growth or small riblets. Near the beaks these lines are prominent and distantly spaced. The exterior center of the valves has a characteristic smoothish 
or glossy area. Exterior dirty-gray to whitish; interior white, commonly 
with purple stainings. The entire lunule is % as wide as long. The form 
notata Say from the same region is externally marked with brown, zie^ag 
mottlings. This species is very common and is used commercially for 
chowders and as clams-on-the-half-shell or "cherrystones." Also known as 
the Hard-shelled Clam. Do not confuse with M. caTnpechiensis. 

Mercenaria mercenaria texana Dall is a subspecies from the northern 
Gulf of Mexico region. It is characterized by a glossy central area on the 
outside of the shell, but has large, irregular, coalescing, flat-topped, concentric ribs. 

Mercenaria campechiensis Gmelin Southern Quahog 

Plate 32g 

Chesapeake Bay to Florida, Texas and Cuba. 

3 to 6 inches in length, very similar to mercenaria, but much more obese, 
a heavier shell, lacks the smooth central area on the outside of the valves, 
and the entire lunule is usually as wide as long. Always white internally. 
