
Worldwide, pelagic. (43° N. to 42° S.). 

10 to 14 mm. in length. See generic description and figure. The shell 
varies somewhat in shape. C. oryza Benson, C. iirceolaris Morch and cmicellata Pfeffer are the same. Common. 

Suborder GYMNOSOMATA 

Pteropods characterized by the absence of shell, pallial cavity and 
mantle-skirt; by the presence of a well-developed head, bearing two pairs of 
tentacles, of which the two posterior bear rudimentary eyes. Jaws and radula 
present. Found pelagic in all seas, and sometimes in great abundance. Rarely 
exceed one inch in length. They are carnivorous. Ascend to the surface at 
night, and sink to a lower level in the daytime. They are not treated in this 
book. The group contains such genera as Pjieuviodennopsis Bronn 1862, 
Fneumodernia Cuvier 1805 {=^ Piieiimono derma Agassiz), Cliopsis Troschel 
1854 {= CHonopsis Bronn), Notobrmichaea Pelseneer 1886, Clione Pallas 
1774, PaedocUone Danforth 1907, Anopsia Gistel 1848 (= Halopsyche 
Bronn and Euribia Rang). 

Order NUDIBRANCHIA 

(Nudibranchs and Sea-slugs) 

Super jamily DORIDACEA 

Family DORIDIDAE 

Branchial plumes in an arc or circle usually joined together at their bases, 
usually retractile into a cavity. Rhinophores always with a perfoliate club. 
Pharyngeal bulb never suctorial. 

Genus Archidoris Bergh 1878 

Body not hard, dorsum granular or tubular; tentacles short, thick, with 
an external, longitudinal sulcus. No labial armature. Branchial plumes not 
numerous, 3- to 4-pinnare. Center of radula naked, marginal teeth hooked 
and bearing minute denticles. Penis and vagina unarmed (without hooks). 

Archidoris montereyensis Cooper Monterey Doris 

Plate i6h 

California. 

I to 2 inches in length. Rhinophore stalks conical, the clavus slightly 



300 American Seashelh 

dilated, conical, perfoliate with 24 to 30 leaves on each side. Each of the 7 
branchial plumes large, spreading and 3- to 4-pinnate. Radula with 33 rows; 
center naked; with 42 to 49 strongly hooked, denticulate pleural teeth. Common in tide pools. 

Subgenus Anisodoris Bergh 1898 
Archidoris 720 bills MacFarland Noble Pacific Doris 

Plate 1 6c 

