Figure 51c 

Alaska. 

2.V2 to 3^4 inches in length, rather solid; with 4 whorls; aperture large 
and slightly flaring. Interior brownish white enamel. Columella slightly 
arched, white within, brown on the parietal wall. Exterior surface brownish 
and smoothish, except for coarse axial wrinkles appearing more as deformities in growth. Moderately common on rocks below low-water mark. 

Subgenus Pyrulofusus Morch 1869 
Volutopsius bar pa Morch Left-handed Buccinum 

Plate 24P 

Alaska. 



BUCCINIDAE 111 

3 to 4 inches in length, characteristically sinistral (left-handed), 4 
whorls, with the smoothish nucleus indented. Sculpture of 6 to 12 very 
oblique, low, rounded axial ribs and numerous (often paired) raised spiral 
threads. Color ash-gray with a light brownish yellow periostracum. Interior 
of aperture tinted with tan. Operculum much smaller than the aperture. 
Dextral (right-handed) specimens are rarities. Fairly common in deep water. 



Genus ]umala Friele 1882 
(Bermgius Dall) 

Jumala crehricostata Dall Thick-ribbed Buccinum 

Figure 51b 

Alaska. 

4 to 5 inches in length, moderately heavy, with 5 to 6 whorls. Characterized by the very strong, rounded spiral cords (3 to 4 between sutures) 
which on the base of the shell tend to be flat-topped. Periostracum grayish 
brown, thin and semi-glossy. A very handsome, but not commonly acquired 
species which occurs from 80 to 100 fathoms. 



Jumala keitnicotti Dall Kennicott's Buccinum 

Figure 5ig 

Alaska. 

5 to 6 inches in length, not very heavy. Characterized by about 9 strong, 
arched, somewhat rounded axial ribs extending from suture to suture, and, 
on the body whorl, extending % the way down the whorl. Spiral sculpture 
of microscopic scratches, except on the base where there are a dozen or so 
weak threads. Periostracum light-brown, thin, and usually flakes off in dried 
specimens. Shell chalky and whitish gray in color. Not uncommon in several fathoms of water; rarely in very shallow water. 

Genus Coins Roding 1798 
Cohis stimpsoni Morch Stimpson's Colus 
