Labrador to Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. 

5 to 8 inches in size, almost circular. Valves almost flat to slightly 
convex. Interior flaky-white. Exterior rough with numerous very small, 
raised threads. Exterior yellowish gray to purplish gray or dirty-white. 
This is the common, edible, deep-sea scallop fished off our New England 
coasts. The name grandis Solander is nude and cannot be used. 

Genus Lyropecten Conrad 1862 
Subgenus Lyropecten s. str. 

Lyropecten antillarum Recluz Antillean Scallop 

Plate 34g 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% to % inch in length and width. Valves fragile, both nearly flat. 
Only about 15 moderately rounded, low ribs. Growth lines exceedingly 
fine (seen with the aid of a strong lens). Color either pastel-yellow, tawnyorange or light-brown, commonly with chalk-white mottlings, flecks or 
stripes. Found uncommonly in shallow water. 

Subgenus Nodipecten Dall 1898 
Lyropecten nodosiis Linnc Lion's Paw 

Plate 33b 

North Carolina to Florida and the West Indies. 

3 to 6 inches in size, rather heavy and strong-shelled. Characterized by 
the 7 to 9 large, coarse ribs which have large, hollow nodules. The entire 
shell also has numerous, much smaller, but distinct, riblets. The color is 
commonly dark maroon-red, but may be bright-red or orange. Fairly common offshore, especially on the west coast of Florida, 

Genus Aeqiiipecten P. Fischer 1887 
Subgenus Aeqiiipecten s. str. 

Aequipecten glyptus Verrill Tyron's Scallop 

Plate 33a 

South of Cape Cod to the Gulf of A4exico. 

I to 2/4 inches in size. Both valves rather flat. Shell somewhat lopsided and spathate in shape. About 17 ribs which start out as fine, sharp, 
slightly prickled ribs, but become flattened and indistinct or absent near the 



PECTINIDAE 367 

margin of the valve. One valve pure-white, the other with broad, rose rays 
corresponding to the ribs. Internally white and with weak, fine ribs. Rare, 
but has been brought in by commercial trawlers. This is P. tryoni Dall. 

Aequtpecten phrygius Dall Spathate Scallop 

Off Cape Cod to east Florida and the West Indies. 

About I inch in size. Characterized by its peculiar spathate or openfan shape. With 17 sharp ribs. On closer inspection, it will be seen that 
each rib is composed of 3 rows of very fine, closely packed scales which 
