Caribbean region, and it is a lightweight shell, deep-cupped, with a flat upper 
valve small and fitting well down into the lower valve. The inner margin of 
the lower, attached valve is splotched with bluish purple. Common. 

Crassostrea gigas Thunberg Giant Pacific Oyster 

Plate 29g 
British Columbia to California. Japan. 

3 to 12 inches in length, of various shapes, but generally characterized 
by its large size, its coarse, widely spaced, concentric lamellae or very coarse 
longitudinal flutings or ridges on the outside. Interior enamel white, often 
with a faint purplish stain on the muscle scar or near the edges of the shell. 
Very rarely with a greenish stain. A common, large and marketable oyster 
introduced yearly into Canada and the United States from Japan. The form 
lapermisi Schrenck is round. The typical gigas is the long, strap-like form. 
O. gigas Aleuschen is an invalid name and does not preoccupy that of Thunberg's. Also known as the Japanese Oyster. 

Order EULAMELLIBRANCHIA 
Suborder HETERODONTA 
S7iperfa77nly ASTARTACEA 

Family ASTARTIDAE 
Genus Astarte Sowerby 18 16 

Astarte borealis Schumacher Boreal Astarte 

Plate 28q 
Arctic Seas to Massachusetts Bay. Alaska. 

I to 2 inches in length, ovate, moderately compressed. External ligament large. Concentric ridges strong near the beaks but disappearing near 



376 America?! Seashelh 

the margins of the valves. Differing from subequilatera in being more elliptical in side view, in having the beaks near the middle, with weaker concentric ribs, and with the inner surface of the valve margins smooth. A common shallow-water species. 

Astarte subequilatera Sowerby Lentil Astarte 

Plate 28-0 
Arctic Seas to off Florida. 

I to I /4 inches in length, ovate, moderately compressed. External ligament small. Concentric ridges strong, rounded, evenly spaced. Internal margin of valves finely crenulate. Beaks turned slightly forward, often eroded. 
Color dull light- to dark-brown. Found in shallow water in the north and 
below 50 fathoms in the south. Common. Compare with bore alls. 

Astarte undata Gould Waved Astarte 

Plate 28r 

New Brunswick to Maine. 

Similar to subequilatera, but less elliptical, with its beaks near the center 
and with fewer and stronger concentric ridges. Probably the commonest 
Astarte in New England. 

Astarte castaiiea Say Smooth Astarte 

Plate 28s 
