North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

% to I inch in height, elongate, fragile, semi-translucent, white, with a 
large posterior gape and with a long, narrow anterior gape. Radial ribs small, 
fine, uneven in size and distribution. Hinge-ears almost equal in length. 
Closely related to L. Mans Gmelin from Europe. A fairly common species 
which is often misidentified in collections as L. inflata Lamarck (not Gmelin) . 
L. antillensis Dall is the same. In thicker and older specimens there is a small, 
pinhole depression in the hinge just off to one side of the ligamental area. 

Subgenus Ctenoides Morch 1853 
Lima scabra Born Rough Lima 

Plate 35f, o 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 



ANOMIIDAE 371 

I to 3 inches in height, half as long. Sculpture coarse, consisting of irregular, radial rows of short, bar-like ribs, somewhat giving the appearance 
of shingles on a roof. Periostracum thin, dark- to light-brown. A common 
variation of this species (form tenera Sowerby) is startlingly different, in 
that the small radial ribs are much more numerous and much smaller (pi. 
35h), Common under rocks in shallow water at low tide. 

Subgenus Mantellum Roding 1798 
Lima heinphilli Hertlein and Strong Hemphill's Lima 

Plate 29c 

Monterey, California, to Mexico. 

I inch in length, white, obliquely elliptical in shape. With fine, irregular, radial ribs which are crossed by very fine, rough threads. Anterior and 
posterior margins smooth. This fairly common species has been erroneously 
called dehiscejis Conrad and L. orientaUs Adams and Reeve. 

Genus Limatula Wood 1839 

Liinatida subauriculata Montagu Small-eared Lima 

Greenland to Puerto Rico. Alaska to Mexico. 

% inch in height, ovate-oblong, greatly inflated (having the shape of 
the shell of a pistachio nut), and sculptured with numerous small, longitudinal riblets. On the inside of the valves there are 2 prominent, longitudinal 
riblets at the center of the shell. Periostracum over the white shell is yellowish brown. Moderately common in cooler waters from just offshore to 
1000 fathoms. 

Genus Lime a Bronn 1831 

Limea bronniana Dall Bronn's Dwarf Lima 

North Carolina to Florida and the West Indies. 

Very small, 5.0 mm. in height, ovate, superficially resembling a small 
Cardiuvi. With about 25 to 30 strong, smooth, rounded, radial ribs. Microscopic, concentric scratches between the ribs. Inner margin of valves serrated 
and reinforced by small, round teeth. Shell pure-white in color. Hinge-ears 
with an internal set of 3 or 4 small teeth. 

