especially noticeable near the small, central, depressed beaks. Periostracum 
thin and yellowish. Exterior of shell dirty-white to cream; interior semiglossy and white. Hinge with a single, large, horizontal thickening. The 
2 long, united siphons of the animal are half the weight of the entire clam. 
Common in mud 2 or 3 feet deep in the northwestern states. Edible but 
tough. Freaks have been named soJida Dall, globosa Dall and taeiiiata Dall. 
For an interesting and well-illustrated account of this species, see Natural 
History Magazine (N.Y.), April, 1948, on "We Go Gooeyducking" by the 
Milnes. 

Panope bitriincata Conrad from North Carolina to Florida is 5 to 6 
inches in length and resembles the Pacific geoduck. Dead valves are rarely 
found, and I have never seen a live specimen. Possibly extinct. 

Super jamily MYACEA 

Family MYACIDAE 

Genus Mya Linne 1758 

These are the soft-shell or "steamer" clams which are so popular in New 
England. The valves are slightly unequal in size and have a large posterior 
gape. Resilium internal, placed posterior to the beaks and attached in the 
left valve to a horizontally projecting chondrophore. 



MYACIDAE 455 

Mya arenaria Linne Soft-shell Clam 

Plate 32X 

Labrador to off North Carolina. Introduced to western United States. 

I to 6 inches in length. PalHal sinus somewhat V-shaped in contrast 
to U-shaped in truncata. Shell eHiptical. Periostracum very thin and lightgray to straw. Chondrophore in left valve long, spoon-shaped and shallow. 
M. japonica Jay of the Pacific coast is probably this speices. This common, 
delectable clam, also known as the long-necked clam, steamer and nanny 
nose, is harvested from the readily accessible mud flats of New England in 
great numbers. In 1935, nearly 12 million pounds, valued at $704,000, were 
taken from our eastern shores. A hundred pounds of clams furnishes 35 
pounds of meat, while the equivalent weight of oysters would give only 13 
pounds. 

Mya truncata Linne Truncate Soft-shell Clam 

Plate 32V 

Arctic Seas to Nahant, Massachusetts. Europe. Arctic Seas to Port 
Orchard, Washington. Japan. 

I to 3 inches in length, similar to arenaria, but widely gaping at its 
abruptly truncate, posterior end. The pallial sinus is U-shaped. In Greenland and Iceland this species is fairly common and is considered a delicacy. 
It is also a food for the walrus, king eider duck, arctic fox and the codfish. 
It is uncommon in American collections. 

Genus Spheuia Turton 1822 

Shell small and fragile; surface with concentric ridges; hinge-teeth absent. The elongate, flattened chondrophore in the left valve juts obliquely 
under the hinge margin of the right valve. These clams are nestlers, and are 
