I ^ to 2 inches in length. A simple cone with a sharp, slightly concave, 
rather high spire, and with flat sides. It is usually smooth, but may have 15 
to 20 cut spiral lines on the sides. Color is an even wash of yellowish white, 
but sometimes with 2 or 3 slightly darker, wide, yellowish spiral bands. 
Periostracum gray and rather thick. We have figured the holotype (specimen which Dall used in describing the species). Uncommon in rather deep 
water down to 30 fathoms. 

Conns villepini Fischer and Bernardi Villepin's Cone 

Plate mi 
Tortugas to Yucatan. 

i^ inches in length. Spire rather well elevated, very slightly concave. 
Each whorl in the spire is concave, with 3 to 4 spiral threads, and with fine, 
arched growth lines. Sides of shell smooth and slightly convex. There are 
about 9 indistinct spiral threads at the bottom end of the shell. Color of the 
thin periostracum is light yellowish brown. Shell light grayish white with 
a faint pinkish undertone. There are 3 or 4 long, irregular, axial streaks of 
dark reddish brown on the sides of the last whorl. Interior of aperture 
blushed with rosy-white. We have illustrated the holotype of mnphiurgiis 
Dall in color which is a synonym. Rare in deep water. 



264 American Seashells 

Conus mazei Deshayes Maze's Cone 

Plate 14k 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

1% to 2 inches in length. A long, narrow, and very handsome species 
which has rows of delicate beads on the very high spire. This is probably 
the most valuable cone in Florida waters. A few fortunate collectors in 
Florida have dredged this unusual cone. 

Conus granulatus Linne Glory-of-the-Atlantic Cone 

Plate 14I 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

I to I % inches in length. A fairly slender cone with rounded whorls in 
the spire which have spiral threads. Colored a brilhant orange-red to brightred with flecks of brown and gold. Coarse spiral threads are usually present 
on the sides. Interior of aperture with a rosy-pink blush. A perfect specimen 
of this species is, indeed, a collector's item. It is very rare in Florida and not 
at all common in the West Indies. It lives in reefs just offshore. 

Coims anstiin Rehder and Abbott Austin's Cone 

Tortugas to Yucatan and West Indies. 

1 MO iV-z inches in length, pure white in color, although some may have 
a yellow-brown apex. Characterized by numerous odd-sized spiral threads on 
the sides. Sides of whorls flat to slightly rounded. Shoulders sharp to slightly 
rounded. Top of whorls slightly concave, with one smooth spiral carina and 
several much smaller threads. Shell sometimes with axial puckerings or riblike wrinkles. Periostracum velvety and grayish brown. Rare off Florida but 
common in 20 fathoms off Yucatan. 

