li?no?iitella Dall, % inch; b, hiodrillia aepynota Dall, % inch; c, Genmmla periscelida Dall, 2 inches; d, Moiiilispira leiicocyma Dall, % inch; e, Ancistrosyrinx 
radiata Dall, ^ inch; f, Cerodrillia thea Dall, % inch; g, Genota viabrunnea Dall, 
2 inches; h, Gymnobela blakeana Dall, ^ inch; i, Ma?igelia morra Dall, % inch; 
j, Crassispira ebenina Dall, % inch; k, Mangelia corbicida Dall, % inch. PACIFIC: 
1, Mitromorpha filosa Cpr., % inch; m, Mitromorpha aspera Cpr., % inch. 



270 American Seashells 

1 5 short axial ribs per whorl. Spiral threads numerous and fine. Sinus small, 
its posterior end round, its opening narrow. Not uncommon below low 
water under rocks. 

C. sanibelensis Bartsch and Rehder is similar, but i inch in length, with 
9 longer and wider axial ribs, with a large slit, and colored orange-chestnut 
with white between the ribs. Uncommon around Sanibel Island. 

Subgenus Crassispirella Bartsch and Rehder 1939 
Crassispira ostrearum Stearns Oyster Turret 

Plate 26n 

North Carolina to south half of Florida. Cuba. 

% to % inch in length; light yellow-brown to chestnut. Sinus U-shaped. 
About 20 weakly beaded axial ribs per whorl. Just below the suture there 
is a single, smooth, strong spiral cord. Spiral threads moderately strong to 
weak (16 to 20 on the last whorl, 4 between sutures). Lower part of outer 
lip thin and strongly crenulate or wavy. Common from low water to 90 
fathoms. C. tampaensis Bartsch and Rehder is very similar, and may be this 
species. 

Genus Cerodrillia Bartsch and Rehder 1939 
Cerodrillia perry ae Bartsch and Rehder Perry's Drillia 

West coast of Florida. 

/4 inch in length, flesh-colored, with a broad, golden-brown band 
around the periphery. 8 to 9 axial ribs per whorl. Faint spiral lines present. 
Not uncommon. C. tbea has shorter axial ribs and is uniform chocolatebrown. 

Cerodrillia thea Dall Thea DriUia 

Figure 57f 

West coast of Florida. 

!4 inch in length, thick-shelled, with a glossy-brown finish, and with 
the short, slanting ribs cream in color. Outer lip prominent. Sinus deep 
and U-shaped. Uncommon in shallow water. 

Genus Monilispira Bartsch and Rehder 1939 
Momlispira albinodata Reeve White-banded Drillia 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

V2 inch in length, resembling a Cerithimn in shape; color dark blackish 


