Diego, California. 

Shell close to T. navalis, but with the auricle typically semi-circular 
rather than sub-triangular in outline. Pallets: stalk long; blade short and 
deeply excavated at the top. Only the distal half of the blade is invested 
with periostracum, which is light horn-colored and semi-transparent, permitting the calcareous portion to be seen within as an irregular, hourglassshaped structure with a deep sinus on either side. A common species. 

Teredo diege?isis Bartsch San Diego Shipworm 

Southern half of California. And south? 



468 Afiierican Seashells 

Shell similar to that of T. navalis, but smaller, more finely sculptured and 
transparent, and with numerous, closely set ridges. Pallets: blade with an 
oval, calcareous base, surmounted by a horny cap, amber to black in color. 
The horny portion is commonly deeply excavated at the tip, but may be 
cut off bluntly. The two elements of the blade come apart very easily. 
T. toivnsendi Bartsch is the same according to Kofoid and others. 

Suborder ANOMALODESMACEA 
Siiperjamily PANDORACEA 

Family LYONSIIDAE 
Genus Lyonsia Turton 1822 

Lyonsia hyalina Conrad Glassy Lyonsia 

Plate 28U 

Nova Scotia to South Carolina. 

% to % inch in length; very thin and fragile. Semi-translucent and 
whitish to tan. Shell elongate, with the anterior end somewhat obese and 
the posterior end tapering and laterally compressed. Without teeth in the 
weak hinge, but with a small, free, elongate, calcareous ossicle inside just 
under the small, inflated, anteriorly pointing beaks. Periostracum very thin, 
with numerous raised radial lines. Commonly has tiny sand grains attached. 
Common from low water to 34 fathoms. 

LyoJisia hyalina floridana Conrad, known from the west coast of Florida 
to Texas, is very similar, differing only in being % as high as long (instead 
of /4) and in having a narrower, more rostrate posterior end. Common. 

Lyonsia arenosa Moller Sanded Lyonsia 

Greenland to Maine. Alaska to Vancouver. 

^ to % inch in length, resembling hyalina, but much less obese, with a 
heavier, greenish-yellow periostracum, and with its posterior end more oval 
and higher than the anterior end. The dorsal margin of the right valve 
behind the beak overlaps that of the left valve considerably. There is no 
posterior gape as in hyalina. Like other species in the genus, it glues sand 
grains to itself. Moderately common from low water to 60 fathoms. 

Lyonsia californica Conrad California Lyonsia 

Puget Sound to Lower California. 
