under the compound microscope. In w^ater mounts such as these, stains are 
usually unnecessary. This temporary preparation may be permitted to dry 
for a day, the cover slip gently lifted, a few drops of euporol or mounting 
medium added, and the cover slip replaced to make a permanent shde. Some 
workers prefer to go from water to eosin stain to ninety-six percent alcohol 
and then to euporol, but this is an unnecessary elaboration. There are also 
excellent, permanent, plastic mounting mediums on the market. Canada balsam and glycerine jelly eventually deteriorate. Keep in mind that KOH or 
lye will burn flesh and eat holes in clothing. 

Pelecypod Features 

Shape of shell. In most families of bivalves, the shape of the shell is 
extremely important as a species character, and only in a few groups, such 
as the oysters and mussels, is shape so variable within a species as to be of 
little taxonomic value. Shape of shell, as a whole, is of little value in determining families or genera, except in a few instances such as Pecten, Spondylus and Pinna. 

Parts of the shell. The two valves of a clam are bound together by a 
brown, chitinous ligament, and usually hooked together by a hinge which is 
furnished with interlocking teeth. The valves are kept closed by powerful, 
internal adductor muscles but kept spread open by the action of the ligament when the animal relaxes or after it is dead. Each valve is a shallow, 
hollov/ cone, with the apex, from which point growth of the valves commences, turned to one side. This apex is termed the umbo (plural: umbos, 
umbones) or beak. The hinge and its teeth are usually just below the beak 
on the inside of the valve. The prodissoconch is the embryonic shell of the 
bivalve, and corresponds to the protoconch or nucleus of the gastropods. It 
is generally eroded away in adults, but when preserved it serves as a useful 
identification character, especially in such groups as the oysters. 

Right and left valves. It is important to distinguish one valve from the 



82 



Aifierican Seashells 



other and to determine which is the anterior or posterior end, for many 
identification features are used in relation to these orientations. The dorsal 
or upper inargin is located on the beak or hinge side; the ventral margin is 
the opposite side. The beaks usually are pointed or curved toward the anterior end which is generally the less pointed end of the shell. The ligament 
in the great majority of cases is posterior to the beaks. When present, the 
heart-shaped impression called the lunule is anterior to the beaks. When a 
clam is placed on its ventral margins on the table with the dorsal hinge margin up, and with the anterior end away from the observer, the right valve is 
on the right, the left valve to the left. Another quick way is to observe the 
concave, interior of a valve with the hinge margin away from the observer 
and to locate the U-shaped pallial sinus impression (see below). If the sinus 
opens toward the left, it is a left valve, and vice versa for the right valve. 



LIGAMENT 



/^ POSTERIOR 

LPtTCRAU 
