CARDIIDAE 401 

Exterior orange-yellow; interior china-white. This is the largest species of 
recent cockles and is moderately common. 

Genus Dinocardium Dall 1900 
Dinocardiu77t robustum Solander Giant Atlantic Cockle 

Plate 32a 

Virginia to north Florida, Texas and Mexico. 

3 to 4 inches in size, ovate, inflated, with 32 to 36 rounded, radial, 
smoothish ribs. Externally straw-yellow with its posterior slope mahoganyred shading toward purple near the edge. Interior rose, with brownish 
posteriorly and with a white anterior margin. This is the large, common 
cockle washed ashore along the Carolina and Georgia strands. It is not found 
in southwest Florida. 

When the Florida Canal project was begun in 1935, President F. D. 
Roosevelt was presented with a large silver platter on which was set a 
specimen of Di7iocardium, encased in gold and containing a portion of the 
first earth excavated as a result of the blast set off by the President. The 
canal was never completed. 

Dinocardium robustwit vanhyningi Clench and L. C. Smith 

Vanhyning's Cockle 

Plate 32b 

Tampa Bay to Cape Sable, Florida. 

3% to 5 inches in size, higher than long, with 32 to 36, smoothish, 
rounded, radial ribs. Externally straw-yellow with irregular patches and 
bands of mahogany-red to purplish brown. It is more elongate, glossier and 
more colorful than robustum, and is the common, large cockle on the west 
coast of Florida. They are popular souvenirs, being used for ash trays, 
melted-butter dishes, baking dishes and for holding pincushions. 

Genus Serripes Gould 1841 

There is only one species of this peculiar genus of cockles in North 
American waters. The hinge is narrow, the cardinal teeth weak, and the 
ligament is large. The radial ribs are very weak. 

Serripes groenlandiczis Bruguiere Greenland Cockle 

Plate 32d 

Arctic Seas to Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Alaska to Puget Sound, Washington. 

2 to 4 inches in length, moderately thin bur strong, inflated, almost 



Plate 33 
LARGE SCALLOPS 



