right, you have located the first arm. Further clockwise are the second, third 
and fourth right arms. Instead of counting further (fifth arm, etc.), return 
to the center again, and count to the left — hence, the first, second, third and 
fourth left arms. When giving an arm formula, only the right ones are generally given, and they are set down in order of large to smaller size. Hence, 
4.3.1.2 means the fourth arm is the largest, the second one the smallest in 
length. It may be pointed out, that on rare occasions an octopus may accidentally lose an arm. 

There are two simple sets of measurements (all in millimeters) which 
are important in distinguishing the species of Octopus. The first is the 
mantle-arm index which simply means the comparison of the length of the 
mantle (measure from the round, bulbous "head" end to a point just between 
the eyes) with the length of the longest arm (turn the octopus over, measure 
from the mouth to the tip of the longest stretched-out arm). An index is 
obtained by multiplying the mantle-length by 100 and then dividing the 
result by the arm-length. 

The ligula index is obtained only from males and from the third right 
arm which is a modified sex organ. The ligula is measured from tip to the 
last sucker. The arm length is obtained as explained in the preceding paragraph. The index is: length of ligula, multiplied by 100, the result divided 
by the total arm-length. The number of gill plates and the size of eggs are 
determined by cutting a deep slit in the body. 

Octopus vulgaris Lamarck Common Atlantic Octopus 

Figure looa 
Connecticut to Florida and the West Indies. Europe. 

Length, including the longest arm, i to 3 feet (the latter would give a 
radial spread of about 7 feet). Mantle-arm index in Florida and North 
Carolina is about 25 (that is, the arms are 4 times as long as the mantle). 
Ligula-index below 2.5. Cill plates 7 to 9 (in Bermuda, usually 10 or 11). 
In life, skin smoothish; preserved, it is rugose with variously shaped warts. 
Eggs 3 mm. or less in length. A common harmless species found hidden away 



OCTOPODIDAE 487 

under large rocks and crevices near shore. This is O. rugosus of authors, 
O. americaniis Blainville and O. carolinensis Verrill. 

Octopus macropus Risso of the West Indies (and possibly Key West) 
has its first arm the largest and longest, has a hgula-index up to 14, and a 
wart over one side of the eye. The skin in preserved material has small 
reddish warts. The eggs are less than 2 mm. in length (see fig. looe). 




Figure 100. Atlantic and Pacific Octopus. The tip end or ligiila of the third right 
arm in the male, a, Octopus vulgaris Lamarck; b, O. burryi Voss; c, O. briareus 
Robson; d, O. joubini Robson; e, O. macropus Risso; f, O. hongkongensis Hoyle 

(Pacific). 



Briar Octopus 

Fissure looc 
