Northern California to Lower California. 

2 to 3 inches in length, with 3 large, wavy, wing-like varices per whorl. 
Siphonal canal closed along its length. The body whorl between each varix 
is smoothish, with or without one low, rounded tubercle, and sometimes with 
2 to 5 weak, spiral cords or threads. Anterior face of each varix with fine, 
crowded, axial fimbriations. Color grayish, dark- or light-brown, or with 
white spiral bands. 

Typical trialatus from southern California and Lower California reaches 
a length of 3 inches, is generally dark chestnut to blackish brown with 4 to 6 
narrow white bands, and has very fine spiral threads which are sometimes 
scaled, beaded or smooth. 

The subspecies carpenter! Dall (fig. 45c) — tremperi Dall and petri Dall 
are ecological forms or color varieties, as is the all-white alba Berry — has 
larger wings which are smooth on the posterior face. The color is generally 
light yellowish brown, all-white or with 2 wide white bands. Common offshore. 



206 American Seashells 

M. erinaceoides rhyssus Dall is similar to trialatiis, but with scaly fimbriations all over, sometimes with numerous, rather strong spiral cords, and 
grayish white in color. Southern CaHfornia, south. Uncommon offshore. 

Subgenus Maxwellia Baily 1950 
Murex gejimm Sowerby Gem Murex 

Plate 246 

Santa Barbara, CaHfornia, to Lower California. 

I to I % inches in length, moderately high-spired, with 6 varices per 
whorl. The varices are swollen, roundish and smooth and connect with each 
other in the middle area of the whorl, but in the area of the suture, and again 
near the base of the shell, the varix is thin, elevated and curled back and may 
bear one or several small spines. There are several spiral low cords colored 
blackish blue which are more obvious on the middle or smoother part of the 
whorl. The spire appears to have squarish pits crudely dug out. Very common along rocky areas under protective rubble and masses of worm tubes. 

Murex santarosana Dall Santa Rosa Murex 

Figure 45d 

Santa Barbara Islands to Lower California. 

I /4 inches in length, spire low, and with 6 curled-back, spined varices per 
whorl. Anterior surface of varices strongly fimbriated. Narrow intervarical 
space smooth. Color brownish white. Uncommon to rare on gravel bottom 
just offshore to 30 fathoms. Do not confuse with the common gemma. 

Murex festivus Hinds Festive Murex 

Plate 24I 

Morro Bay, California, to Lower California. 

I /4 to 2 inches in length, spire high, 3 varices per whorl. Color brownish 
cream with numerous fine, dark spiral lines. V^arix, with its thin, fimbriated 
