

To my children 
Bobby, Carol, and Cindy 



Preface 



This book wrote itself in response to the many hundreds of inquiries on 
seashells and other mollusks that have been sent to such museums as the 
Smithsonian Institution. Our natural heritage of seashore treasures has always 
been of keen interest to Americans, and in recent years there has been such 
an increase in shell collecting and biological investigations of mollusks that 
the need for a book like this has become apparent. 

American Seashells belongs to the amateurs, for it is their enthusiasm in 
searching beaches and bays and their limitless curiosity into the ways of molluscan life that have dictated the contents of this book. How do shells grow? 
How do they form their color patterns? How do they breed and what do 
they eat? are the kind of questions asked. But the greatest demand has been 
for a reliable and up-to-date identification work. This need has been felt 
not only by private collectors, but particularly by students of marine biology 
and those undertaking research in fisheries and ecology. In meeting these requirements, there has been an attempt to strike a balance between the palatable, popular accounts and the more technical material. The illustrations, the 
standardization of popular names and the natural history accounts will be of 
particular interest to the beginner, and it is hoped that the monographic reviews, identification keys and the bibliographies will adequately serve the 
serious student. 

There are over 6000 species of mollusks living in North American marine 
waters, and a thorough treatment of them all would call for a book many times 
the size of this. The conchologist will find that the 1500 species discussed or 
illustrated within these pages include every kind of shell likely to be found 
in shallow waters, whether collecting is done in Labrador, Florida or along 
the western shores from Alaska to Lower California. 

While considerable original research went into many parts of this book, 
it should be kept in mind that a popular book covering such a vast fauna is 
merely an expression of the present state of knowledge of our science and 
that time and research by others will inevitably render sections of it obsolete. 

I would like to express my thanks to Dr. Leonard Carmichael, Secretary 
of the Smithsonian Institution, for granting permission to publish on and illustrate specimens housed in the United States National Museum. Although the 
efforts involved in this project did not encroach upon official time, I would 

vii 



viii Preface 

like to record my good fortune in being able to consult the National Museum 
collections on holidays and during after hours. Austin H. Clark stands foremost as spiritual guide and counselor in the many intricacies of preparing a 
book for the public. Dr. Harald A. Rehder, curator of the Division of Mollusks, with whom I have been pleasantly associated for several years, has kept 
a weather eye on this project and in not a few instances has made valuable 
suggestions. I have gratefully and heavily leaned on the Minutes of the 
Conchological Club of Southern California which represents the work of 
John Q. Burch, A. Myra Keen, A. M. Strong, S. Stillman Berry and many 
others. A4r. Gilbert Voss kindly helped me with the section on squid and 
octopus. This is also true of ]ohvsonia, a magnificent work produced by 
