strong axial nodules per whorl. Umbilicus imperfect, sometimes funnelshaped. Moderately common in the West Indies, rare in Florida. 

Latirus brevicaudatus Reeve Short-tailed Latirus 

Plate I if 

Lower Florida Keys and the West Indies. 

I to 2% inches in length, rather broad, with a short siphonal canal, with 
8 to 9 rounded, long axial ribs crossed by numerous spiral threads. Color 



242 American Seashells 

light-chestnut, reddish brown or dark-brown. Not so shouldered as, and less 
coarsely sculptured than, mcgintyi. It is much stouter and not so elongate as 
infundibulum, but like that species may have narrow, brown spiral lines or 
threads. Moderately common in the West Indies. 

Genus Fasciolaria Lamarck 1799 
Fasciolaria tulipa Linne True Tulip 

Plate 13b 

North Carolina to south half of Florida and West Indies. 

3 to 5 inches in length, with 2 or 3 small spiral grooves just below the 
suture, between which the shell surface is often crinkled. Sometimes with 
broken spiral color lines. A beautiful orange-red color variety is not uncommon on the Lower Keys. Common. Giants reach a length of 10 inches. 

Fasciolaria hunteria Perry Banded Tulip 

Plate 13c 

North Carolina to Florida and the Gulf States. 

2 to 4 inches in length, whorls entirely smooth near the suture. The 
widely spaced, rarely broken, distinct, spiral, purple-brown lines are characteristic. Albino shells are rare. A common western Florida species which 
lives in warm, shallow areas. Formerly F. distans Lamarck, a later name. 

The subspecies braiihamae Rehder and Abbott from Yucatan to off west 
Texas has a much longer siphonal canal and the spiral color lines are also on 
the siphonal canal. Intergrades exist in Louisiana and Alabama. Branham's 
Tulip is moderately common. 

Genus Pleuroploca P. Fischer 1884 
Pleuroploca gigantea Kiener Florida Horse Conch 

Plate 13a 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida. 

Almost 2 feet in length, although usually about i foot. Outer surface 
dirty-white to chalky-salmon, and covered with a fairly thick, black-brown 
periostracum which flakes off in dried specimens. The young (up to about 
3% inches) have a thinner periostracum and the entire shell is a bright orangered. A form which lacks the nodules on the last whorl was named reevei 
Philippi 1 85 1. P. papulosa Sowerby 1825 is insufficiently described to apply 
with any certainty to this species. 

