olivaceous, slaty or brownish, usually covered with specklings of a darker 
hue. Upper surface of valves covered with microscopic, sharp granulations 
which are rarely aligned in any direction. Lateral areas may be slightly 
raised, and may be bounded in front by a very low rib. The apex of the 
posterior valve is near the center and is raised; behind the apex, the valve 



314 American Seashells 

is concave. Girdle very narrow, same color as the valves, and with very 
minute, gritty granules. 

L. (C.) dentiens is a common intertidal form found north of Monterey 
County, California. It is replaced to the south by the very similar and 
common L. (L.) keepiana Berry (Keep's Baby Chiton). In the former, the 
insertion teeth are prominently developed, their bounding slits in general 
widely V-shaped, and the teeth of the posterior valve very acute on the 
sides; the eaves are wide and conspicuously porous or "spongy." In the latter 
species, there are numerous short, fiarroivly slitted teeth in the terminal 
valves, and extremely thin, narrow, less openly porous eaves. (See S. S. Berry, 
1948, Leaflets in Malacology, vol. i, no. 4.) 

Lepidochitoiia hart^uegi Carpenter ' Hartweg's Baby Chiton 

Washington to Lower California. 

I to 1 34 inches in length, oval, rather flattened. Similarly colored to L. 
de?itiens. Girdle narrow and finely granulated. Sculpture of the end valves 
and the lateral areas of the middle valves differs from the microscopic granulations of dentiens in bearing easily seen, but very tiny, warts. It also differs 
in having the area behind the apex of the posterior valve convex instead of 
concave. Moderately common in intertidal areas. 

Genus Nuttallina Carpenter 1879 
Nuttallina californica Reeve Californian Nuttall Chiton 

Vancouver Island to San Diego, California. 

About I inch in length, almost 3 times as long as wide. Color darkbrown to olive-brown. Upper surface of valves finely granulated and with 
a shallow furrow on each side of the smooth dorsal ridge. Apex, or mucro, 
of posterior valve so far back that it extends beyond the posterior margin 
of the eaves. Interior of valves bluish. Posterior valve about as wide as long 
and with 8 to 9 slits. Girdle with short, rigid spinelets mostly brown in 
color and with a few white ones intermingled. The girdle looks mossy. 
Moderately common. 

Nuttallina scahra Reeve Rough Nuttall Chiton 

San Diego to Lower California. 

Very similar to N. californica, but the posterior valve twice as wide as 
long. Color of valves lighter. Girdle spines much less numerous. This 
is Carpenter's Acanthopleura flexa. 



MOPALIIDAE 315 

Family MOPALIIDAE 
Genus Mopalia Gray 1847 
