
Trivia ritteri Raymond Ritter's Trivia 

Monterey, California, to Lower California. 

% inch in length, globular, pure-white in color. Characterized by about 
15 fine riblets that run over the bottom, sides and back of the shell without 
being interrupted by a dorsal groove. Uncommonly dredged on gravel bottom from 25 to 60 fathoms. 

Trivia califorfiiana Gray Californian Trivia 

Plate 20V 

California to Lower California. 

Vs to just less than K' inch in length, rotund, and characterized by its 
mauve color, white, slightly depressed crease on the midline of the back, and 
by the fairly coarse riblets crossing over the entire shell (outer lip with 
about 15). A common littoral species, often washed ashore with seaweed. 
Also lives as deep as 40 fathoms. Trivia sangninea Sowerby, a more southerly species, is larger, deeper purple, without the prominent white streak on 
the back and with finer, more numerous riblets (outer lip with about 20). 

Trivia soIa?idri Sowerby Solander's Trivia 

Plate 20U 

Catalina Island to Panama. 

% to % inch in length, rotund, and characterized by the strong, raised, 
smooth riblets running over the lip and up onto the back. Dorsal groove 
deep, cream-colored and flanked by 8 to 10 cream nodules on each side. 
Ground color of shell dark purplish brown. Moderately common in the littoral zone. 

Trivia radiajzs Lamarck (Lower California to Ecuador) is larger, flatter, 
and with a brownish spot on the back which discolors the central groove. It 
is fairly common. 



180 American Seashells 

family CYPRAEIDAE 

Genus Cypraea Linne 1758 

Subgenus Trona Jousseaume 1884 

Cypraea zebra Linne Measled Cowrie 

Plate 6d 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 3/4 inches in length, oblong, light-faun to light-brown, with large, 
round, white dots over the back. Toward the base of the shell these white 
dots have a brown center. The shell is darker brown, narrower and less 
inflated than cervus. Moderately common in intertidal waters. Formerly 
called C. exanthema Linne. A light orangish form, probably due to being 
buried in sand for some time, was described from Cuba (form vallei Jaume 
and Borro 1946). 
