

Genus Aletes Carpenter 1857 
Aletes squamigerus Carpenter < Scaled Worm-shell 

Plate 2oe 

Forrester Island, Alaska, to Peru. 

Grows in large, twisted masses. The shelly tubes are circular, K to % 
inch in diameter. Sculpture of numerous, minutely scaled or rough, longitudinal cords. Color gray to pinkish gray. The last part of the shell which 
usually stands erect for % inch is smoothish. A very common, colonial species found in masses on wharf pilings or attached to rocks below the lowwater line. 



Genus Spiroglyphus Daudin 1800 
Spiroglyphus Htuellus Morch Flat Worm-shell 

Plate 2od 

Forrester Island, Alaska, to San Diego, California. 

A small worm-tube mollusk found adhering to rocks and the shells of 
abalones in a tightly wound, flat spiral. The last whorl may grow up on top 
of the previous whorls and be erect for ^ of an inch. Aperture circular, 
about Vs inch in diameter. Shell solid, with 2 large, scaled cords which give 
a somewhat squarish cross-section to the whole shell. Hollow scales and 
fimbriations present elsewhere. Color cream to purplish gray. Operculum 
horny, multispiral and brown. Moderately common. 

There is a very similar species reported from the West Indies (5. annulatus Daudin). 

Family SILIQUARIIDAE 
Genus Vermicularia Lamarck 1799 

Vermicularia spirata Philippi West Indian Worm-shell 

Plate 21c; figure 22i 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

Evenly and closely spiraled for about ^ inch, then becoming random 
and drawn out in its worm-like coiling. Shell rather thin, colored a translucent to opaque amber, orange-brown or yellowish. Early whorls dark, 
smooth, except for i (rarely 2) smooth, spiral cord on the middle of the 
whorl. Subsequent whorls with 2 major cords which soon lose their prominence. Smaller threads present, especially on the base of the shell. This is 



CAECIDAE 145 

not the common West Florida species usually called ^^spirata'" in other books. 
See knorri and also fargoi. 

For anatomy and relationships in the worm-shells, see the excellent works 
by J. E, Morton (1951) in the Transactions of the Royal Society of New 
Zealand. 

Vermicularia knorri Deshayes Florida Worm-shell 

Plate 2ia 
