of radular teeth but, like the bivalves, they have a nonlobed velum in the 
larval or veliger stage, and in adulthood have a wedge-shaped foot and lack 
a definite head. They lack gills but absorb oxygen from the sea water 
through the tissues of the mantle. Water is first taken in through the small 



54 



American Seashells 



posterior end of the tube-like shell. The water slowly builds up inside the 
mantle cavity of the animal over a period of about ten mmutes; then, after 
a short period of rest, the water is suddenly expelled in the opposite direction. 
As in the manner of feeding among the bivalves, ciliated ridges within the 
mantle ensure passage of food particles to the region of the mouth. However, the primary method of feeding is by means of a number of long, cephalic filaments or captacula which are anchored to the two flattened lobes 
flanking the mouth. The club-shaped ends of these tiny filaments are tactile 
and prehensile and are capable of capturing Foraminifera and other similar 
minute organisms. These captacula project out in all directions from the 



-CftPTPiCULUM 




Figure 19. a, Diagrammatic drawing of the internal anatomy of Deiitalmm; b, 
radular teeth of Dentalimn; c, the central tooth found in the radula of the 

Sipho?iodentalndae. 



larger, anterior end of the shell. Frequently, they are broken or torn off in 
the searchings through the sand but are soon regenerated. This accounts 
for the difference in length of the captacula in many specimens. 

The embryonic shell or prodissoconch of the scaphopods is cup-shaped 
and consists of two shelly valves, which subsequently unite to form a tube. 
They may still be seen at the initial end in some specimens of Siphonodentalium, but are always absent in adult Dentalium. The adult shell is open 
at both ends. It is added to at the larger, anterior end by the mantle edge, 
while at the posterior end there may be a gradual loss of shell through wear 
and absorption. The tiny posterior slits or notches that are characteristic 
of some species are formed by reabsorption of the previously solid shell 
wall. The shell wall is made up of three thin layers of calcareous material; this 
is in contrast to the similar-appearing worm-tubes that have only two layers. 
In cross-section, the shell may be round, slightly elliptical, octagonal or 
polygonal in shape, depending upon the species. The presence or absence of 



Lives of the Other Mollusks 55 

microscopic longitudinal or concentric riblets and the nature of the apical 
slits are often useful for identification. Few of our American species, other 
