Plate 320 

Greenland to Massachusetts. Alaska to Puget Sound, Washington. 

1/4 to 3 inches in size, a little longer than high, with 32 to 38 ridged 
radial ribs which are crossed by coarse concentric lines of growth. Externally drab grayish yellow with weak, narrow, concentric bands of darker 
color. Interior ivory. Periostracum gray and conspicuous. Especially abundant from Maine northward in offshore waters. 

Clinocardium nuttalli Conrad Nuttall's Cockle 

Plate 31b 

Bering Sea to San Diego, California. 

2 to 6 inches in length; smaller ones being almost round, adults tending 
to be higher than long; moderately compressed; commonly with 33 to 37 
coarse radial ribs which are creased by half-moon-shaped riblets. Older 
specimens worn smoothish. Exterior drab-gray, with a brownish yellow, 
thin periostracum. Common offshore. Once called C. corbis Martyn. Known 
locally as the Basket Cockle. 

Clinocardiimi fucanum Dall Fucan Cockle 

Sitka, Alaska, to oif Monterey, California. 

I to 1/4 inches in length, longer than high, moderately inflated, and 
with 45 to 50 low, poorly developed, radial ribs which are crossed by microscopic concentric lines. No wavy, radial furrow on the upper posterior 
edge of the shell. Color whitish with a grayish-brown periostracum. Common in the Puget Sound area. 

Young C. nuttalli are distinguished from this species by their 2 first ribs 
behind the ligament which are large, rounded and make a wavy edge to the 
shell. In small specimens of C. ciliatmn, the top edges of the ribs are sharp; 
in jucanuvi they are rounded. 



404 American Seashells 

Genus Cerastoderma Poli 1795 
Cerastoderma pinnulatwn Conrad Northern Dwarf Cockle 

Plate 30c 

Labrador to off North CaroHna. 

^ to /4 inch in length, thin, with 22 to 28 wide, flat ribs which have 
delicate, arched scales on the anterior slope of the shell. Scales missing on 
the central portion of the valve. Externally cream; interior glossy and white, 
rarely tinted with orange-brown. Commonly dredged from 7 to 100 fathoms. 

Super jamily VENERACEA 
Family VENERIDAE 

The classification of the family of Venus clams has been one of continual 
debate and rearranging for some years. Our presentation here is no better 
than has been suggested before, but at least it is in a form which is conservative and most likely to be accepted by the majority. Rather than accept a 
separate family Chionidae or consider it a subfamily remotely related to the 
Venerinae, we have allied it as an artificial group in the subfamily Venerinae. 
I suspect that an anatomical study of the soft parts will support this course. 

