
Similar to Thracia, but the right beak is without a round hole, and the 
ligament is internal on a definite chondrophore, and the valves are with 
oblique, concentric undulations. This is sometimes considered a subgenus 
of Thracia, not without justification. There is only one species on the 
Pacific Coast of America. 

Cyathodonta undulata Conrad Wavy Pacific Thracia 

Plate 3 IS 

Monterey, California, to Tres Marias Islands, Mexico. 

1/4 inches in length, subovate, very thin and fragile, white, and with 
obliquely concentric undulation which are largest at the anterior end, but 
disappear toward the posterior end of the shell. Minute, crowded, granulated, radial lines are also present. Uncommon. C. diibiosa Dall and C. 
pedroana Dall appear to be this species. 

Family PERIPLOMATIDAE 
Genus Feriploma Schumacher 18 17 

Shell small, oval, right valve fatter than the left, with a slight pearly 
sheen, hinge with a narrow, oblique spoon and a small, free, triangular lithodesma; ligament absent; anterior muscle scar long and narrow, the posterior 
one small and ovate. 

Feriplovia papyratiwn Say Paper Spoon Clam 

Plate 28W 

Labrador to Rhode Island. 

% to I inch in length, oval, moderately compressed, thin-shelled, and 
dull-white with a thin, yellowish-gray periostracum. Beaks slit or broken by 
a short, radial break. Spoon-like chondrophore faces downward and is reinforced by a sharp, curved rib which runs to the inner surface of the valve 



PERIPLOA4ATIDAE 47 3 

in a ventral direction. Sculpture of irregular, fine, concentric growth lines. 
A weak radial groove runs from the beak to the anterior part of the ventral 
edge. Moderately common in dredge hauls from i to 200 fathoms. P. papyraceiim is an incorrect spelling for this species. 

Feriploma -fragile Totten, the Fragile Spoon Clam (Labrador to New 
Jersey, 4 to 40 fathoms), differs in being more rostrate anteriorly, the beaks 
pointing more forward and placed more anteriorly. Its chondrophore is 
more horizontal to the hinge line. 



Periplo77ia ineqiiale C. B. Adams Unequal Spoon Clam 

Plate 28X 
South Carolina to Florida and to Texas. 

% to I inch in length, oblong, the left valve more inflated and slightly 
overlapping the right valve. Fragile and pure white. Beaks close together, 
each with a short, radial break or slit in the surface. An oblique, low keel 
runs from the beaks to the anterior ventral margin of the valve. The keel 
is bounded posteriorly by a groove. Sculpture consists of microscopic, concentric scratches. Hinge with a single, large, spoon-shaped tooth or chondrophore, above which is a deep slit where the small, free, triangular lithodesma 
