


Genus Arene H. and A. Adams 1854 
Arene cruentata Miihlfeld Star Arene 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, one third again as wide. 4 to 5 whorls angular with the 
periphery bearing a series of strong, triangular spines which are hollow on 
their anterior edges. Color white to cream with small, bright-red patches 
on top of the whorl. Below the main row of spines there is a minor spiral 
row of smaller spines. Suture channeled. Aperture circular, pearly within. 
Umbilicus round, deep, and bordered by 3 spiral, beaded cords. Uncommon under rocks. 

The form vanhyningi Rehder from Sand Key, Key West, is pale graywhite with most red patches absent. It lacks fine, axial ridges on top of the 
whorl which are usually present in the typical form. Uncommon. 

Arene venustula Aguayo and Rehder (Miami to Puerto Rico) is similar 
to cruentata, but smaller, much more squat, chalky-white, and with two peripheral rows of blunt spines. The rows are very close to each other. Rare, 
20 fathoms. 



Arene gevmia Tuomcy and Holmes Gem Arene 

Plate lyq 

North Carolina to south half of Florida to Brazil. 

% inch or less, turbinate in shape; 3 spiral rows of neat, tiny beads on 
the squarish periphery. Suture minutely channeled and bounded below by 
a spiral row of whitish beads. Top slope of whorls and base of shell flattish. 
Axial threads on entire shell microscopic and crowded. Umbilicus round, 
deep, bordered by 7 to 9 distinct beads. Color of shell white to tan with 
minute specklings of red and/or brown. Commonly dredged from 3 to 100 
fathoms. 



TURBINIDAE 12 3 

Arene variabilis Dall Variable Arene 

Plate 17s 
North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

%6 inch in length, turbinate, similar to A. germna^ but pure white in 
color, with scale-hke beads, suture more deeply channeled, and with a more 
rounded periphery. 1 2 very weak beads bordering the more open umbilicus. 
The 3 spiral rows of beads on the whorl may be almost smooth in some 
specimens. Very commonly dredged from 20 to 270 fathoms. 

Subja7nily TURBININAE 
Genus Turbo Linne 1758 

Turbo castaneus Gmelin Chestnut Turban 

Plate 3g 
North Carolina to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 
