mercenaria). A common, commercially dredged species found in sandy mud 
from 5 to 80 fathoms. This is the only living species in this family. There 
are numerous fossil species. Also called the Black Clam and Mahogany Clam. 



Family TRAPEZIIDAE 
Genus Coralliophaga Blainville 1824 

Shell cigar-shaped, with the beaks at the anterior end. 3 cardinals in 
each valve, the posterior one extending along the hinge line like a lateral. 
Posterior muscle scar considerably larger than the anterior one. Some workers have placed this genus in the Petricolidae. 



Coralliophaga coralliophaga Gmelin Coral-boring Clam 

Plate 28p 

West coast of Florida to Texas and the West Indies. 

% to I % inches in length, oblong to elongate, and quite thin. Very 
finely sculptured with radial threads. Concentric lamellations present at the 
posterior end. Exterior yellowish white; interior white. This shell is very 
similar in appearance to Lithophaga antillarum, but may be told from it by 
the presence of distinct teeth in the hinge. This is an uncommon species 
which lives in the burrows of other rock-boring mollusks. 



Superfainily DREISSENACEA 

Fajnily DREISSENIDAE 

Genus Cojigeria Partsch 1835 

Subgenus Mytilopsis Conrad 1857 

Congeria leucophaeata Conrad Conrad's False Mussel 

New York to Florida to Texas and Mexico. 

V2 to % inch in length, superficially resembling a Mytiliis or Septifer 
because of its mussel-like shape. The Septifer-like shelf at the beak end has 
a tmy, downwardly projecting, triangular tooth on the side facing the long, 
internal ligament. The hinge has a long thin bar under the ligament. Exterior bluish brown to tan with a thin, somewhat glossy periostracum. Interior 
dirty bluish tan. This common bivalve attaches itself by its short byssus to 
rocks and twigs in clumps which resemble colonies of Mytihis. Found in 
brackish to fresh water near rivers. 



DIPLODONTIDAE 383 

Super jamily LUCINACEA 

Family DIPLODONTIDAE 

Genus Diplodonta Bronn 1831 

