

TURRIDAE 267 

Terebra salleana Deshayes Salle's Auger 

North Florida to Texas and Colombia. 

I to 1% inches in length, similar to cinerea, but always a dark bluish 
gray or brownish, with fewer, larger punctations, with about 30 ribs per 
whorl, and with a purple, not white, nucleus. Common in shallow water. 

Terebra pedroana Dall San Pedro Auger 

Redondo Beach, California, to Lower California. 

I to i^ inches in length, strong, slender, with about 12 whorls and 
colored grayish to whitish yellow or brownish. Sculpture between sutures 
of first a fairly broad row of well to poorly developed nodules (about 15 to 
18 per whorl), followed below by a flat area which is weakly and axially 
wrinkled or ribbed and with numerous, fine, spiral, incised lines. Siphonal 
canal bounded by a sharp spiral line on the outer shell. Fairly common in 
shallow water. 

Fajnily TURRIDAE 

The family Turridae is a very large and diverse group of toxoglossate 
gastropods which are very difficult to classify. A book of this size cannot do 
justice to the many interesting species found in our waters. The family probably contains no less than 500 genera and subgenera and several thousand 
species. An interesting and valuable review of the family is given by A. W. 
Powell in the Bulletin of the Auckland htstitute and Museum, no. 2, pp. i to 
188, 1942. Those interested should consult the works of Grant and Gale, 
Bartsch, Dall, Rehder, and Woodring. We have included here only a very 
sketchy representation of our American Turrid fauna. 

Subfamily TURRINAE 

Shells rather large, usually with a long, slender canal. Sinus on or adjacent to peripheral keel; deep and V-shaped. Operculum leaf-shaped with an 
apical nucleus. Radula with only 2 marginals which are wish-bone in shape. 

Genus Gemmula Weinkauff 1875 
Geiinnula periscelida Dall Atlantic Gem Turret 

Figure 57c 

North Carolina to Tortugas, Florida. 

1% to 2 inches in length, heavy and with the sinus or anal notch well 
below the suture. Color ash-gray. See illustration. Rare in 100 fathoms. 



268 Avierican Seashells 

Genus Polystira Woodring 1928 
Poly stir a albida Perry White Giant Turret 

Plate 13I 

South Florida, the Gulf of Mexico and the West Indies. 
