They give off a harmless purple ink, Tethys is a name which was for a long 
time applied to this group, but it is now restricted to a nudibranch genus. 
Aplysia is a conserved name (see fig. 6og). 

Aplysia willcoxi Heilprin Willcox's Sea-hare 

Cape Cod to both sides of Florida. 

5 to 9 inches in length. Mantle under the lobes with a minute perforation or fleshy tube above the area of the shell. Color dark-brown with slight 
maculations on the swimming lobes, head and neck. There are large, rounded, 
fairly regular, yellowish scallopings along the inner border of the lobes. 
Mantle and gills light-purple and yellow. Common. The form perviridis 
Pilsbry is clear green on the head and tentacles, the lobes olive-green with a 
coarse-meshed reticulation of black, subdivided by fine veins; irregularly 
maculated all over with light-green, with an occasional clumping of white 
dots. 

Aplysia dactylomela Rang Spotted Sea-hare 

South half of Florida and the West Indies. 

4 to 5 inches in length, characterized by its pale-yellow to yellowishgreen color and the fairly large, usually irregular circles of violet-black scattered over the body. Common in some grassy localities. A. protea Rang of 
the West Indies is very similar, but the circles are more numerous, and often 
with smaller circles or large spots within the larger ones. 

Aplysia fioridensis Pilsbry Sooty Sea-hare 

Lower Florida Keys. The West Indies? 

4 inches in length. Color deep purple-black, the inside of the swimming 



286 American Seashells 

lobes slightly lighter, and with blotches of black at the edges. Mantle purpleblack, spotted irregularly with lighter purple. Uncommon? 



Subgenus Metaplysia Pilsbry 1951 
Aplysia badistes Pilsbry 1951 Walking Sea-hare 

Biscayne Bay, Florida. And south? 

2 to 4 inches in length. Mantle under the lobes with a large perforation. 
Sole of foot with a characteristic, muscular disk at each end. Exterior of 
animal dark-olive, indistinctly mottled with irregular spots of dusky buff, 
and having small, sparsely scattered, ragged black spots. Sole of foot yellowish olive. Found recently along the Venetian Causeway under rock ledges 
at low tide. (For details see Notulae Naturae, Philadelphia, no. 240, pp. i 
to 6, illustrated.) 

Genus Bnrsatella Blainville 181 7 
Bursatella leachi plei Rang Ragged Sea-hare 

West and northwest Florida and the West Indies. 

4 inches in length, elongate-oval, plump, soft and flabby. Greenish gray 
to olive in color, sometimes with white flecks. Surface covered with numerous, ragged filaments. Shell absent in adults. Commonly found in grassy, 
mud-bottom areas at low tide. The east side of Sanibel Island is a good collecting spot. This is the only western Atlantic species known in this genus. 
Formerly placed in another genus, Notarcbns Cuvier 18 17. 
