3 1 Pacific Coast Bivalves — Cockles and Venerids 

3 2 Atlantic Coast Bivalves — Venus and Macomas 

BETWEEN PAGES 402 AND 403 (iN COLOr) 

33 Large Scallops 

34 Small Scallops 

35 Pearl Oysters and Mussels 

36 Thorny Oysters 

37 Jewel Boxes 

38 Atlantic Oysters, Lucinas and Venus Clams 

39 Venus Clams and Cockles 

40 Semeles and Tellins 



Foreword 



Shell collecting is now taking its place as one of the major outdoor 
diversions. It has advantages over such pursuits as bird watching or fishing, 
for you may have even more pleasure in studying your catch at home than 
in the time spent afield. The thrill of finding a shell new to you, or of watching some rare snail going about its watery aff^airs, is ample reward for the 
sunburn and stifi" neck you may have from wading around too long with a 
water-glass. Hours sieving dredgings are counted well spent if a fine volute 
or turrid turns up in the seaweed and rubbish. 

American Seashells gives a comprehensive and well-rounded view of the 
Mollusca in nontechnical language. It is easy reading for the beginner, but it 
contains also material indispensable to the advanced malacologist. The chapters on nudibranchs and pteropods are especially welcome, for these beautiful 
animals have always been slighted in American books. In chapters on the 
life of the snail and the clam, with the author we "listen in" to the current 
of molluscan life. The shells become living things, moving and breathing, 
feeding and mating. 

One perplexity of the novice is that different books may give different 
names for the same shell. The causes of this diversity are explained on a 
later page. With the facilities of the largest museum in America, the author 
has been able to speak with authority in those matters of nomenclature. 
When the problem is zoological and still to be solved by further collections, 
or by the study of living moUusks, then the cooperation of the keen collector 
may give the answer sought. Professional malacologists are few. Their work 
is largely in museums with dead animals. The interesting but long task of 
collecting from a thousand miles of coast, and observing mollusks alive, has 
always been in large part a labor of love by private naturalists. Our science 
owes nearly as much to them as to the work of professional zoologists. 

The author belongs to the younger group of malacologists, but he has 
cultivated the society of mollusks in many lands, from East Africa, the 

xiii 
