Subgenus Eury tellina P. Fischer 1887 
Tellina lineata Turton Rose Petal Tellin 

Plate 4oh 

All of Florida and the West Indies. 

1 34 inches in length, moderately elongate, slightly inflated, solid and 
with a fairly strong twist to the right at the posterior end. Smoothish and 
glossy, but under a lens fine, concentric, crowded grooves may be seen. 
The outer surface has a slight opalescent sheen. Color pure-white or strongly 
flushed with watermelon-red. Pallial sinus just touches the anterior muscle 
scar, while in the similar but more elongate T. alternata it does not. Common in shallow water. 

Tellina alternata Say Alternate Tellin 

Plate 4on 

North Carolina, Florida, and the Gulf States. 

2 to 3 inches in length, elongate and compressed, solid, and with a 
moderately pointed and slightly twisted posterior end. Sculpture of numer428 American Seashells 

ous evenly spaced, fine, concentric grooves. Area near umbones smooth. 
Color glossy and variable: whitish, yellowish or flushed with pink. Interior 
glossy-yellow or pinkish. A common shallow-water species which should 
always be compared with lineata. 

The similar Tellina angulosa Gmelin from the Keys and West Indies 
is not so elongate, has finer grooves and a more highly glossed surface which 
is commonly covered with a greenish-yellow, thin periostracum. Common 
in sand. 

T. piinicea Born (which Dall called angulosa Gmelin) from the Keys 
(rare) and West Indies (common) is similar, but is always bright watermelon-red internally and purplish red exteriorly. The pallial sinus just 
touches the anterior muscle scar, which it does not in alternata or angulosa. 

Genus Arcopagia Brown 1827 
Subgenus Cyclotellina Cossmann 1886 

Arcopagia fatista Pulteney 1799 Faust Tellin 

Plate 40) 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 4 inches in length, oval, moderately inflated, fairly heavy, and 
smoothish, except for small, rough, concentric lines of growth. Hinge strong, 
the posterior lateral in the right valve being long and strong. Color outside 
a semi-glossy-white; inside highly glossed and enamel-white with a yellowish 
flush. Do not confuse with T. laevigata which is glossy outside and has 
orange-tinted margins. Moderately common in the West Indies. Donovan 
gave this species the same name in 1 80 1 . 

Genus Strigilla Turton 1822 

Tellin-like shells, usually oval in shape and with inconspicuous growth 
lines crossed by fine, oblique, cut lines. There are only four species in the 
western Atlantic. 

