f, F. Immnilum Conrad; g, P. apicinwn Menke; h, P. virginianum Conrad; i, Hyalina 
avena Val.; j, Persicula cat en at a Montagu; k, H. avenacea Deshayes; 1, H. torticida 
Dall; m, Persicula immita Pfeifer; n, GibbeniVma pyrifonms Cpr.; o, G. ovulijoniiis 
Orb. (m and o Xio, the others X5). 



256 American Seashells 

I inch in length, extremely close to carneum, differing only in being 
larger, and in having a brown spot on the apex and 2 large chocolate spots 
on the outer lip. There may be also 2 smaller spots at the anterior end of the 
shell. Apparently rare and possibly a color form of carneum. I have seen 
only 3 specimens. 



Frunmtt labiatu?n Valenciennes Royal Marginella 

Plate III 

Off Texas to Central America. 

I to 1% inches in length, similar to carneum, but stouter, lip orangebrown, body whorl whitish gray with 3 darker, subdued spiral bands. Outer 
lip with small teeth on its inner edge. Very uncommon, but has been found 
off Yucatan by shrimp fishermen. The Texas record is open to question. 

Subgenus Leptegouana Woodring 1928 

Prunum guttatujn Dillwyn White-spotted Marginella 

Plate iim 
Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

/4 to % inch in length; outer lip smooth, white and with 2 or 3 brown 
spots on the lower half. 4 columella teeth. Color of body whorl pale whitish 
with 3 obscure bands of light pinkish brown, and irregularly spotted with 
weak, opaque-white, roundish dots. Not uncommon in shallow water. 

Prunu7n helium Conrad La Belle Marginella 

Figure 56d 

Off North Carolina to Key West. 

/4 inch in length, glossy, white, sometimes with a bluish-gray undertone. 
Sometimes with a rose tint on the body whorl. Spire moderately elevated. 
Outer lip thickened, without teeth. Lower half of columella with 4 strong, 
equally sized teeth. Commonly dredged from i to 200 fathoms. 

Pnmum amabile Redfield Queen Marginella 

Figure 566 

Off North Carolina to Key West. 

% inch in length, similar to bellum, but with a shorter spire, more slanting columellar teeth, colored a translucent-tan with a heavy suffusion of 
orange on the shoulder of the whorl which becomes lighter on the lower 
part of the whorl. There is a fairly well-developed, white callus on the 
parietal wall. Uncommonly dredged from 25 to 125 fathoms. 
