
lllex illecebrosus Lesueur Common Short-finned Squid 

Figure 99b 

Greenland to North Carolina and the Gulf of Mexico. 



484 American Se ash ells 

Total length, including tentacular arms, 12 to 18 inches. A common 
squid characterized hj the small opening to the eyes and the small, narrow 
sinus or notch in front of the eyes, and by the proportion of fin-length to 
mantle-length which is roughly i to 3. The sides of the head, back of the 
eyes, have a rather prominent, transverse ridge, back of which the head suddenly narrows to the neck. Under surface of head with a deep, smoothish 
excavation to receive the dorsal half of the siphonal tube. In males, either 
the left or right ventral arm is hectocotylized. A very common species used 
for fish bait. It may be seen in large schools near shore, especially in summer 
in New England. 



Genus Sthenoteuthis Verrill 1880 

Very similar to Illex in almost every way, but the sucker-bearing area 
includes less than one half the total length of the tentacular arms. The larger 
suckers on the tentacular club are strongly toothed, with an additional large 
tooth in each of the four quadrants. 



Sthenoteuthis bartrami Lesueur Flying Squid 

Worldwide. 

2 to 3 feet in total length, resembling the common Illex, but more slender, with shorter fins, and with 4, not 8, rows of tiny suckers on the end of 
the 2 long tentacular arms. Preserved specimens show a distinct dark, purplebrown dorsal stripe. In hfe, the colors are very brilliant and are continually 
changing. Along the middle dorsal line there is a broad violet stripe with a 
stripe of reddish yellow on each side of it. Body elsewhere bluish; fins rosy. 
Skin covered with small, red-violet chromatophore dots. On the eyes there 
are two elongated spots of brilliant blue, and below a bright spot of red. 
Color of ink reported to be a coffee-and-milk color. A common ocean-going 
species which swims with great speed, and not infrequently jumps out of 
water and lands on the decks of ships. Like most squid, it is attracted by 
artificial light. 

Order OCTOPODA 

The octopods have only 8 arms and are without the 2 long tentacular 
arms that are characteristic of the squid. The suckers on the arms are without stalks and are not equipped with horny rings. No internal pen or shell. 
This order includes the many forms of Octopus and the Paper Nautilus, 
Argonauta. The female Argonauta secretes a shell to hold her eggs. 



OCTOPODIDAE 485 

Family ARGONAUTIDAE 
Genus Argonauta Linne 1758 
