Conus mus Hwass Mouse Cone 

Plate 14-0 
Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

I to I /4 inches in length. Spire elevated somewhat. Shoulders of whorls 
with low, irregular, white knobs, between which are brown splotches. Color 
a dull bluish gray with olive-green or brown mottlings. Interior of aperture 
with 2 wide spiral bands of subdued brown. Periostracum thick, velvety and 
yellowish to greenish brown. The name Conus citrinus Gmelin (erroneously 
applied to this species in Johnsonia and other books) is actually the yellow 
form of regius. The Mouse Cone is very common in intertidal, reef areas. 

Conus stearnsi Conrad Stearns' Cone 

Plate 2 2y 
North Carolina to both sides of Florida to Yucatan. 

/4 to % inch in length. A small, slender, graceful cone with a high spire. 
Top of whorls concave. Sides almost flat. Color usually dull grayish with 
rows of tiny, white squares and with dull, yellowish brown streaks or mottlings. Highly colored specimens may have rich reddish brown mottlings. 
Moderately common from shallow water to 30 feet in sand. Do not confuse 
with jaspideus. 

Conus jaspideus Gmelin Jasper Cone 

Plates 1411; 2 2X 
South half of Florida and the West Indies. 



CON I DAE 263 

% to % inch in length; very similar to stearnsi, but generally more 
brightly hued with larger, reddish brown mottlings. The shell is fatter, with 
more rounded sides, and has strong, spiral lines cut into the sides, usually 
right up to the shoulder. A very common shallow, sand-loving species. C. 
peali Green is the same species. 



Conns vernicosiis Hwass Warty Cone 

Plate 22Z 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% to I inch in length, A heavy, small cone with a rather high spire and 
slightly rounded sides. It has small knobs on the shoulder of the last whorl 
and about lo spiral rows of distinct warts on the sides. Color white to yellowish with large, brown or yellow mottlings. Uncommon just offshore 
along the Lower Keys. Common in the West Indies. 

A color form, vanhyningi Rehder, is a deep, rich peach with the interior 
of the aperture also pink. 

Conus stimpsoni Dall Stimpson's Cone 

Plate 14) 
Southeast Florida and the Gulf of Mexico. 

