4 to 16 inches in length, left-handed, with a row of moderately small, 
triangular knobs at the shoulder. Color grayish white with long, axial, wavy 
streaks of purplish brown which are blurred along their posterior edge. 
Albino shells are rare. Off Yucatan and rarely in Florida, right-handed 
specimens are found. Their siphonal canal is longer than that in B. carica, and 
the shell is lighter than that of perversum. A very common species in west 
Florida. 

Busy con perversum Linne Perverse Whelk 

Plate 23k 
Both sides of central Florida. 

4 to 8 inches in length, very heavy and with a glossy finish. This 
species should not be confused with the common contrarium. This species 
can be either left-handed (formerly known as kieneri Philippi 1848) or 
right-handed (formerly known as eliceans Montfort 18 10, pi. 23k). The 
name B. perversum or Fulgur perversa in most old popular books refers to B. 
contrarhmi. The perverse whelk is an uncommon species. It is characterized 
by the heavy, polished shell and the swollen, rounded ridge around the 
middle of the whorl. Dredged from 4 to 10 fathoms. 

Subgenus Busy coty pus Wenz 1943 
Busy con canaliculatum Linne Channeled Whelk 

Plate 2311 

Cape Cod to St. Augustine, Florida. 

5 to 7% inches in length, characterized by a deep, rather wide channel 
running along the suture and by the heavy, felt-like, gray periostracum. Common in shallow, sandy areas. Left-handed specimens are rare. The subgenera 
Fulguropsis E. S. Marks 1950 and Sycofulgur Marks 1950 are the same as 
Wenz's subgenus. 

Busy con spiratum Lamarck Pear Whelk 

Plate 9g 
North Carolina to Florida and the Gulf States. 

3 to 4 inches in length; characterized by its smooth, rounded shoulders 
and the deep, but narrow channel at the suture. Periostracum thin and 
velvety. Do not confuse with Ficus which is a much more fragile shell. 
Common in shallow, sandy, clear water areas. The animal is cream-gray. 
Known in all previous popular books as B. pyrum Dillwyn. In the western 



NASSARIIDAE 237 

part of the Gulf of Mexico, specimens often have a weak keel on the 
shoulder (form or subspecies plagosum Conrad). 

Busy con coarctatwn Sowerby Turnip Whelk 

Plate I a 

Yucatan area, Mexico. 

Until 1950 this was considered a very rare species, but dredging activities 
of shrimp trawlers have brought a large number of them to light. Characterized by its turnip-like shape, single row of numerous small, dark-brown 
