


Subjamily SCAPHELLINAE 
Genus Scaphella Swainson 1832 

Scaphella junonia Shaw The Junonia 

Plate i3f 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida to Texas. 

5 to 6 inches in length, rather solid and smooth. 4 folds on the columella. Characterized by the cream background and the spiral rows of small 
reddish brown dots. Moderately common from i to 30 fathoms, but rarely 
washed ashore. A golden form occurs off Alabama (subspecies johnstoneae 
Clench 1953) and specimens from Yucatan have a white background with 
smaller spots (subspecies Imtleri Clench 1953). About 50 specimens a year 
are found on west Florida beaches, and many more are brought in by fishermen. 



VOLUTIDAE 251 

Subgenus Aurinia H. and A. Adams 1853 
Scaphella dohrni Sowerby Dohrn's Volute 

Plate 13) 

Off the south half of Florida. 

3 to 4 inches in length, similar to junonia, but much lighter in weight, 
much more slender, with a higher spire and with numerous exceedingly fine, 
incised (cut) spiral lines. Some specimens have the early whorls slightly 
angled and with short axial ribs. This is the form named florida Clench and 
Aguayo and is probably not a good species. A rare species which is appearing in private collections more and more. 

Scaphella dubia Broderip Dubious Volute 

Off south half of Florida and the Gulf of Mexico. 

4 inches in length, similar to dohrni, but more slender, with fewer spots, 
and with 6 to 7, instead of 9 to 10, rows of spots. A rare and exquisite species from moderately deep water. 

Scaphella schmitti Bartsch Schmitt's Volute 

Plate 136 

Off Tortugas, Florida. 

5 inches in length. Under the brownish periostracum the shell is chalky, 
pale salmon and with 4 or 5 spiral rows of weak, brown, square spots. A 
thick, yellowish-gray glaze overlays the periostracum on the parietal side of 
the body whorl. Columella straight, while in R. georgiajia Clench from 
Georgia to east Florida it is arched. Both quite rare, the former in 80 fathoms 
of water. The genus Rehderia Clench 1946 was unfortunately erected upon 
an ecological or pathological character and should be considered a synonym 
of Scaphella. 

Genus Arctoinelon Dall 191 5 
(Boreomelon Dall 191 8) 
