pure white. Formerly known as Raeta canaliciilata Say. R. cainpechejisis 
Gray is also a synonym. Commonly washed ashore, especially along the 
strands of the Carolinas, but rarely seen alive. 



Labiosa lineata Say Smooth Duck Clam 

North Carolina to the north % of Florida and to Texas. 

2 to 3 inches in length, % as high, fairly thin but strong. White to tan 
in color. Moderately smooth, except for irregular growth lines and tiny, but 
distinct, concentric ribs near the beaks. Posterior end with a distinct radial 
rib behind which the shell gapes with flaring edges. Uncommon in most 
areas of its range. 



450 American Seashells 

Genus Schizothaerus Conrad 1853 

Shell large with a roundish posterior gape. Hinge with small cardinal 
teeth; lateral teeth very small and close to the cardinals. Ligament external 
and separated from the cartilage pit by a shelly plate. 

Schizothaerus nuttalli nuttalli Conrad Pacific Gaper 

Plate 31Z 

Washington to Lower California. 

Up to 8 inches in length. An oblongish to oval, strong, smoothish shell 
with a prominent gape at the posterior end. The neat, well-formed beaks 
are located M to % from the anterior end. The pallial sinus is very large 
and deep. Periostracum grayish. Common. Compare with the northern subspecies capax Conrad. 

Schizothaerus nuttalli capax Gould Alaskan Gaper 

Kodiak Island, Alaska, to Monterey, California. 

Up to 10 inches in length, differing from the typical nuttalli in being 
much more oval, more obese, and dipping downward into a well-rounded, 
ventral margin. This species is very common on most sandy and mud beaches 
in Puget Sound. 

Genus Rangia Desmoulins 1832 
Rangia cuneata Gray Common Rangia 

Figure 91a, b 
Northwest Florida to Texas. 

I to 2% inches in length, obliquely ovate, very thick and heavy. The 
beaks which are near the oval, anterior end are high, inrolled and pointing 
downward and anteriorly. Exterior whitish, but covered with a strong, 
smoothish, gray-brown periostracum. Interior glossy, white and with a bluegray tinge. Pallial sinus small, but moderately deep and distinct. A common 
fresh-water to brackish-water species found in coastal areas. R. iiasuta Dall 
is probably only a rostrate form of this species. Compare with R. flexuosa. 

Subgenus Rangianella Conrad 1867 
