
Southern half of California to Peru. 

Me of an inch in length (one of the smallest of our American clams), 
oval-oblong to quadrate, with one end slightly more rounded. Beaks slightlynearer the posterior end. Shell very obese to moderately inflated. Color 
lis^ht-tan with dark carmine around the dorsal margin area, and commonly 
blushed on the sides with light-carmine. Coarse, concentric growth lines, 
especially in the adults. Periostracum thin and yellowish tan. Found nestled 
together in great numbers attached to seaweed holdfasts and among mussels. 

Lasaea subviridis Dall (British Columbia and south) is much more compressed, smoother, with smaller beaks, but otherwise similar to cistula. Common. 

Genus Pseiidopyth'ina P. Fischer 1884 

Shell small and quadrangular. Lateral teeth absent; i cardinal tooth in 
each valve. 

Fseudopythina rugifera Carpenter Wrinkled Lepton 

Figure 80a 

Alaska to Lower California. 

% to % inch in length, oval-oblong, moderately obese, fairly fragile, 
beaks close together and located about the middle of the shell. Shell white, 
but in live specimens covered with a thin, light-brown, semi-glossy periostracum which is feebly and concentrically wrinkled. The ventral edge of the 
valves is slightly indented in the middle in some specimens. May be found 
attached to crustaceans and the sea mouse, Aphrodita, or be free. 

Vseiidopythwa compressa Dall (Alaska to Mexico, the Compressed Lepton) is similar in size and outline, but is considerably compressed (thinner), 
smoothly polished in the beak area and with much less periostracum. Common. 

Genus Mysella Angas 1877 

Two cardinal teeth in the right valve, none in the left. Rochefortia 
Velain is this genus but a later name by several months. 



Mysella planulata Stimpson Atlantic Flat Lepton 

Nova Scotia to Texas and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, oval-oblong in side view, well-compressed, and fairly 



396 



American Seas hells 



fragile. Beaks small, % the distance back from the anterior end. Dorsal margin of valves pushed in, both in front and back of the beaks. There is no 
thickening of the hinge line directly below the beaks. Color white, with 
a thin, nut-brown, smoothish periostracum. Moderately common attached 
to buoys, eel-grass and wharf pilings. 

