
Tampa Bay area, west Florida. 

V2 to I inch in length; the light-brown aperture is thickened and the 
outer lip has 6 small, white teeth. With about 9 to 1 1 sharp, axial ribs per 
whorl, crossed by about 9 to i o equally strong spiral cords on the last whorl, 
thus giving the shell a cancellate sculpture. The whorls in the spire show 
only 2 spiral, nodulated cords. Exterior dark-gray. Common on mudflats. 

Genus Purpura Bruguiere 1789 
Purpura patula Linne Wide-mouthed Purpura 

Plate 25I 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 3/4 inches in length; without an umbilicus. Exterior dull, rustygray. Columella salmon-pink. Inner borders of aperture with splotches of 
blackish brown. Common in the West Indies, uncommon in Florida. The 
animal exudes a harmless hquid which stains the hands and collecting bag a 
permanent violet. 

The subspecies pansa Gould (west coast of Mexico south to Columbia) 
is similar in most respects, but the columella is colored a whitish cream. 

Genus Thais Roding 1798 
Subgenus Stramonita Schumacher 1817 

Thais haemastoma floridaJia Conrad Florida Rock-shell 

Plate 25a 

North Carolina to Florida, and the Caribbean. 

2 to 3 inches in length, solid, smooth to finely nodulose. Color lightgray to yellowish with small flecks and irregular bars of brownish. Interior 
of aperture salmon-pink, often with brown between the denticulations of the 
outer lip. Running inside the aperture high up on the body whorl above the 
parietal area, there is a strong spiral ridge. Some specimens have a faint fold 
or phca on the base of the columella. This is a very common species, but 
quite variable in shape and color pattern. Typical hae?7msto??M Lamarck occurs in the Mediterranean and West Africa. See additional remarks under 
Thais rustica. 

Thais haemastoma haysae Clench Hays' Rock-shell 

Northwest Floriaa to Texas. 

This subspecies is characterized by its large size (up to 4% inches in 



214 American Seashells 

length), strongly indented suture, and rugose sculpture with a row of double, 
strong nodules on the shoulder of the whorls. M. D. Burkenroad (1931) has 
given a long account of the biology of this oyster pest. 

Thais rustica Lamarck Rustic Rock-shell 

Plate 25f 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. Bermuda. 
