bears a strong, radial rib, while on the left valve there is a fairly strong, radial 
groove. Pallial sinus very large. Living specimens are not commonly collected, although shells are commonly washed ashore. 

Apolymetis biajigiilata Carpenter Pacific Grooved Macoma 

Santa Barbara, California, to Ensenada, Mexico. 

2 to 3 V2 inches in length, oval, moderately compressed, strong, and dull 
grayish white in color. Interior glossy-white with the central portion blushed 
with pastel-peach. Left valve with a shallow, radial groove near the posterior 
end. Right valve with a corresponding ridge at the end of which the margin 
of the shell is shallowly notched. Alias A. alta Conrad. Common. 

Family SEMELIDAE 
Genus Semele Schumacher 18 17 

Resilium supported in a horizontal, chondrophore-like depression which 
is internal and parallel with the hinge line. 2 cardinal teeth in each valve. 
Right valve with 2 distinct lateral teeth, but practically absent in the left 
valve. The ligament is external. 

Semele proficua Pulteney White Atlantic Semele 

Plate 40g 
North Carolina to south half of Florida and the West Indies. 

/4 to 1/4 inches in length, almost round, beaks almost central. Lunule 
small and pushed in. Fine concentric lines and microscopic radial striations. 
Externally whitish to yellowish white. Interior glossy, commonly yellowish, 
rarely speckled a little with purple or pink. Moderately common in shallow 
water. The color form radiata Say, has a few indistinct radial rays of pink 
(pl.400. 



SEMELIDAE 435 

Semele pwpiirascens Gmelin Purplish Semele 

Plate 40b 

North Carolina to south half of Florida and the West Indies. 

I to i^ inches in length, oblong, thin-shelled, smooth except for very 
fine concentric growth threads over which run another set of fine, microscopic concentric lines at an oblique angle. External color variable: commonly gray or cream with purple or orangish mottlings. Interior glossy and 
suffused with purple, brownish or orange. A fairly common, shallow-water 
species. 

Semele bellastriata Conrad Cancellate Semele 

Plate 30) 

North Carolina to south half of Florida and the West Indies. 

/4 to % inch in length, similar in shape to piirpurascens, but a much 
smaller species with numerous radial and concentric riblets which cross to 
give a cancellate appearance. Some specimens well-beaded, others have the 
radial ribs more prominent. External color yellowish white with reddish 
flecks or a solid, purplish gray. Interior white, cream or suffused with mauve 
or violet, 5. cancellata Orbigny is this species. Fairly common just offshore. 
