North Carolina to Florida and the Gulf of Mexico. 

Differing from spirata in having the early, evenly coiled part pure white 
in color. The later whorls are very similar to spirata. Common in sponge 
masses, and frequently washed ashore. 

Vermicularia fargoi Olsson Fargo 's Worm-shell 

Plate 2 lb 

West Coast of Florida to Texas. 

Similar to spirata and knorri, but the "turritella" or wound stage is % 
CO I inch in length; the shell is thicker and sturdy, its color a drab grayish to 
yellowish brown. Early whorls tan to brown, with 2 (sometimes 3) spiral 
cords. Subsequent whorls with 3 major, brown-spotted, thick cords. Aperture with a squarish columella corner. Minute minor threads are between 
the main cords. Commonly found crawling on mud flats. A race occurs in 
Texas in which the "turritella" stage is much more slender. 

Genus Tenagodus Guettard 1770 
(Siliquaria Bruguiere 1789) 

Tenagodus squainatus Blainville Slit Worm-shell 

Plate 2ig 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

A small worm-like shell with detached whorls throughout. Characterized by the long row of small holes or elongate slits on the middle of the 
whorl. Early whorls smooth, white; later whorls becoming very spinose and 
stained with brown. The coiling is very irregular and loose. Grows to about 
5 or 6 inches in length. T. modestus Dall may be the young of this species. 

Family CAECIDAE 

These tiny, cucumber-shaped mollusks are occasionally found by screening the beach sand in warm water areas or by shaking out dead sponges. The 
Caecums begin life in a normal snail-like manner with a tiny, spiral shell, but 
within a few weeks they grow only in one direction to form a simple, slightly 
curved tube. The spiral apex is usually knocked off and the hole plugged 



146 



American Seashells 



with a septum. As additional growth takes place, the animal retreats gradually from the apical or rear portion and forms new, internal septa. The 
operculum is thin, circular, homy, and multispiral. 




Figure 37. American Caecums. ATLANTIC: a, Caecum florida?m?n Stimpson; 
b, C. cooperi S. Smith; e, C. carolinianum Dall; d, C. piilchellwn Stimpson; e, 
C. nitidum Stimpson; f, C. nebulosum Rehder (type). PACIFIC: g, C. californicum 
Dall; h, C. dalli Bartsch (type); 1, C. carpenteri Bartsch (type); j, C. occidentale 
