Massachusetts to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 

%6 to M inch in length, glossy, smooth, translucent-gray and marked 
with fine, axial zigzag brown to yellow stripes. Base of shell with fine, incised spiral lines. Aperture constricted, slightly sinuate. Outer lip with 4 
small teeth on the inside. No prominent varix. Nuclear whorls very small 
and translucent. Color sometimes milky-white or mottled in brown. A very 
common species found at low tide. 

Mitrella raveneli Dall Ravenel's Dove-shell 

Plate 25CC 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida. 

% inch in length, resembling lunata, but translucent-whitish, without 
the mottlings, normally a slightly larger shell, more elongate, with a longer 
siphonal canal, and with a rather thin outer lip which lacks the deep sinuation found in the upper portion of the outer lip as in Iwiata. Commonly 
dredged from 5 to 90 (rarely to 200) fathoms. Rarely washed ashore. 

Mitrella tuberosa Carpenter Variegated Dove-shell 

Alaska to the Gulf of California. 

/4 inch in length, slender, with a narrow, pointed, flat-sided spire. Shell 
smooth and usually glossy. Outer lip slightly thickened and with small teeth 
within. Color a translucent yellowish tan with opaque, light-brown flammules 
and maculations. Sometimes all brown with tiny white dots. Early whorls 
in worn specimens have a lilac tinge. Periostracum thin and translucent. 
Common in shallow water; 7 to 30 fathoms. M. variegata Stearns may be this 
species. 

Genus Amphissa H. and A. Adams 1853 
This genus was formerly placed in the family Buccinidae. 

Amphissa versicolor Dall Joseph's Coat Amphissa 

Figure 50a 

Oregon to Lower California. 



224 



American Seas hells 



y^ inch in length, rather thin, but quite strong; surface glossy. 7 whorls. 
Suture well-impressed. Whorls in spire and upper third of body whorl with 
about 15 obliquely slanting, strong, rounded, axial ribs. Numerous spiral, 
incised lines are strongest on the base of the body whorl. Lower columella 
area with a small shield. Outer lip thickened within by about a dozen small 
white teeth. Color pinkish gray with indistinct motthngs of orange-brown. 
A common littoral to shallow-water species. 



