by an impressed line, is a similar row of much shorter, axial ribs. The lower 
third of the whorl is marked by 3 or 4 raised, spiral threads only. Columella 
with a single, strong fold near the bottom. A fairly rare species. 



266 American Seashells 

Terebra concava Say Concave Auger 

Plate 26) 
North Carolina to both sides of Florida. 

% inch in length, slender, about 1 2 whorls, semi-glossy, and with slightly 
concave whorls. Whorls in spire with a large, heavily nodulated or beaded, 
swollen spiral cord just below the suture. Above the suture there is a spiral 
series of 20 very small beads per whorl. The concave middle of the whorl 
bears about 5 microscopic, incised spiral lines. Color yellowish gray. Common in shallow water. Do not confuse with the larger yellow T. floridana 
which has 2 spiral rows of elongate beads just below the suture. 

Terebra protexta Conrad Fine-ribbed Auger 

Plate 26k 

North Carolina to Florida and Texas. 

% to I inch in length, about 1 3 whorls, dull-white in color and with a 
well-indented suture. Whorls in spire slightly concave with about 22 fine 
axial ribs running from suture to suture, but which are broken weakly by 7 
to 9 incised spiral lines. The upper line is about % the way down the whorl. 

Several forms exist which have been given names: form lutescens Smith 
has about 30 to 32 finer axial riblets per whorl which are made slightly beaded 
by the spiral lines; in the form limatula Dall, the ribs and the spiral threads 
are about equal in size and give a reticulated pattern. All occur together in 
fairly deep water and are common. 

Terebra hastata Gmelin Shiny Atlantic Auger 

Plate 26h 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

1/4 to I ^ inches in length. Characterized by its smooth, highly glossy 
finish, its numerous axial ribs which extend from suture to suture, and by its 
bright yellowish color and white band below the suture. Columella smoothish and white. This is the "fattest" species in the western Atlantic, and is 
fairly common in the West Indies. 

Terebra cinerea Born Gray Atlantic Auger 

Plate 26g 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies, 

I to 2 inches in length, slender, with flat-sided whorls and a sharp apex. 
Numerous small riblets extend halfway down the whorls (about 45 to 50 
per whorl). Color all cream or bluish brown; sometimes with darker spots 
below the suture. Surface with exceedingly fine, numerous rows of pinpricks which give the shell a silky appearance under the lens. Moderately 
common in shallow water. Compare with salleana Deshayes. 

