Slender, almost flat on one side Gadila Gray 1 847 

Subgenus Polyschides Pilsbry and Sharp 1897 
Cadulus carolinensis Bush Carolina Cadulus 

Figure 69a 

North Carolina to Florida and to Texas. 

10 mm. in length. Slightly swollen. Apex with 4 shallow slits. In crosssection the shell is roundish. Commonly dredged from 3 to 100 fathoms. 

327 



328 American Seashells 

Cadulus quadridentatus Dall Four-toothed Cadulus 

Figure 69b 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

5 to 10 mm. in length, swollen behind the aperture. Apex with 4 welldefined slits. In cross-section the shell is roundish. Commonly dredged from 
3 to 50 fathoms. 

Subgenus Gadila Gray 1847 
Cadulus mayori Henderson Mayor's Cadulus 

Southeast Florida. 

3 to 4 mm. in length, swollen just anterior to the middle of the shell. 
Apical opening % the size of the aperture and usually has i or 2 callus rings 
within the opening. Fairly common from 1 6 to 1 00 fathoms. 

family DENTALIIDAE 

Shell with the greatest diameter at the aperture. Foot conical and with 
epipodial processes. Median tooth of the radula twice as wide as long. 

Genus Dentalium Linne 1758 

The shell is an elongate, curved tube open at both ends, and somewhat 
resembles an elephant's tusk. The diagnostic characters are the type of sculpturing (ribs, riblets and circular threads or incised lines), the form of the 
apex, the degree of curvature, the size and thickness of shell and the position 
and form of the apical slit. The ten or so subgenera are nebulous in character and definition and one should consult the works of J. B. Henderson, 
H. A. PUsbry and W. H. Dall. 

Subgenus Dentalium s. str. 
Dentalium laqueatum Verrill Panelled Tusk 

North Carolina to south Florida and the West Indies. 

I to 2/4 inches in length, thick-shelled and dull-white in color. Apex 
sharply curved; anterior % of shell slightly arched. 9 to 12 strong, elevated, 
primary longitudinal ribs with equally spaced, concave intercostal (space 
between ribs) spaces. Ribs fade out at the anterior third. There are fine 
reticulations over the entire shell. A supplemental tube is present in the 
young shells. Abundant in sandy mud from 4 to 200 fathoms. 

