

OSTREIDAE 37 3 

similar to the Pacific Coast species. Inch-long, brownish specimens are fpund 
in the crevices of coral boulders below low-water mark to several fathoms. 
Larger, more whitish specimens are found clinging to iron wrecks. Moderately common. P, decipiens Philippi. See plate 38b. 

SuperfavTily OSTREACEA 

Family OSTREIDAE 
Genus Ostrea Linne 1758 

This genus used to include all of the oysters, but today several valid 
genera are recognized, so that only three American species are included in 
true Ostrea. These are O. eqiiestris Say and O. permolUs Sowerby from the 
Atlantic Coast and O. hirida Carpenter from the Pacific Coast. The European oyster, O. ediiUs Linne is also in this group. All of these oysters are 
relatively small. The eggs are fertilized and developed within the mantle 
chamber and gills. Usually around one million eggs are produced at one 
spawning. The prodissoconch hinge is long, the valves symmetrical. In the 
adults, the muscle scar is near the center of the shell and is not colored. 



Ostrea equestris Say Crested Oyster 

Plate 28c 

North Carolina, Florida, the Gulf States and West Indies. 

I to 2 inches in length, more or less oval, and with raised margins which 
are crenulated. The attached valve has a flat interior with a rather high, vertical margin on one side. Interior dull grayish with a greenish or opalescentbrown stain. Margin sometimes stained a weak-violet. Not very abundant 
except in some Florida bays. It lives in water that is much saltier than that 
in which virginica lives. Also named spreta Orbigny. O. cristata Born is 
quite different and is limited to South America. 

Ostrea pons Linne 'Coon Oyster 

Plate 28d 

Florida, Louisiana and the West Indies. 

I to 2 inches in size. The radial plicate sculpture and corresponding 
sharply folded valve margins are characteristic of this intertidal species. Inner 
margins of valves closely dotted with minute pimples for nearly the entire 
circumference of the valves. Muscle scars located well up toward the hinge. 
Beaks somewhat curved. Interior translucent-white, exterior usually purplish 
red. Frequently elongate and attached to stems of trees by a series of clasping projections of the shell, but may be also oval in shape. O. rubella and 
O. limacella Lamarck are this species. O. jolimn Linne is a Philippine species. 



374 American Seashells 

Ostrea permollis Sowerby Sponge Oyster 

Plate 28b 

North Carolina to Florida and the West Indies. 

