Barbatia cancellaria Lamarck Red-brown Ark 

Plate zyq 

Southern Florida and the West Indies. 

I to 1% inches in length, similar to B. Candida, but with low, cancellate sculpture and colored a dark, purplish brown. This is a common species 
which is erroneously called B. barbata Linne (a Mediterranean species). 

Subgenus Acar Gray 1857 
Barbatia dontingensis Lamarck White Miniature Ark 

Plate 27U 

North Carolina to Florida and the Lesser Antilles. 

^ to % inch in length, somewhat box-shaped, whitish in color and with 
no appreciable periostracum. Similar in shape and sculpture to Arcopsis 
adamsi, but instead of having a small, triangular ligament between the beaks, 
domingensis has a very narrow, long ligament posterior to the beaks. The 
posterior end is usually larger than the anterior end and characteristically 
dips slightly downward. Common at low tide under rocks. Erroneously 
called Area reticulata Gmelin by Dall and others (see Lamy and Woodring) . 

Barbatia bailyi Bartsch Baily's Miniature Ark 

Santa Monica, California, to Gulf of California. 

A little over ^ inch in length, oblong to squarish, fat; cancellate sculpture in which the beads become foliate at the posterior end. Ligament small, 
narrow and placed well posterior to the fairly close beaks; about 15 teeth. 
Color white to brownish white. 

Very common in certain localities under stones at low tide. A. pernoides 
Carpenter was thought to be this shell but is apparently some other much 
larger species of unknown identity. 

Subgenus Fugleria Reinhart 1937 
Barbatia tenera C. B. Adams Doc Bales' Ark 

Plate 27k 

Southern half of Florida to Texas and the Caribbean. 

I to I >2 inches in length, thin-shelled, rather fat and evenly trapezoidal 
in shape and with numerous rather evenly and finely beaded, thread-like ribs. 
Ligamental area fairly wide at the beak end, becoming narrow at the other. 



344 American Seashelh 

Small byssal gape present on the ventral margin. Moderately common. Area 
balesi Pilsbry and McLean is this species. 

Genus Arcopsis von Koenen 1885 

Ligament limited to a very small, triangular, or bar-like area bet^veen 
the umbones. 


