


Figure 8o. Pacific Lepton Clams, a, Fsendopythhia rugifera Cpr., % inch, attached to the underside of a crawfish; b, Mysella tmnida Cpr., % inch; c, animal 
of the clam, Bortiia longipes Stimpson, ^ inch (Carolinas). 



Mysella golischt Dall 

Southern third of California. 



Golisch's Lepton 



/4 inch in length, oval-oblong in side view, moderately compressed and 
rather fragile. Beaks small, % the distance back from the anterior end. The 
dorsal margin of the valve is pushed in slightly just anterior to the beak. 
Shell white, semi-transparent, with its glossy exterior having irregular, concentric wrinkles. In live specimens, there is a thin yellowish brown periostracum. These clams are found attached to the gills or legs of the large sand 
crab, Blepharopoda occidentalis. Common, M. pedroaiia Dall, known from 



CARDIIDAE 397 

a single specimen, is much more oblique in shape, resembling the equally rare 
Erycina jernmidina Dall from off Florida. 

Mysella tu77tida Carpenter Fat Pacific Lepton 

Figure Sob 

Alaska to Lower California. 

Vq to %6 of an inch in length, moderately compressed, somewhat triangular in shape. The tiny beaks are almost at the very posterior end. Shell 
dull-white, but commonly covered with a light-brown, smoothish periostracum which is faintly marked with concentric, microscopic wrinkles. The 
hinge teeth are large in comparison to those in other species. Common from 
low water to 99 fathoms. Has been found in duck stomachs. 

Superfamily CARDIACEA 

Family CARDIIDAE 

Subfamily TRACHYCARDIINAE 

Genus Trachycardium Morch 1853 

Trachycardium muricatum Linne Yellow Cockle 

Plate 39P 

North Carolina to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 

2 inches in height, subcircular, with 30 to 40 moderately scaled, radiating 
ribs. Externally light-cream with irregular patches of brownish red or shades 
of yellow. Interior commonly white, rarely yellow-tinted especially in Florida. A very common, shallow-water species. Compare with eginontianum 
and magnum which are both more elongate. 
