In the Natica Moon Shells, there is a muscular disk on the under surface 
near the end of this extensible proboscis, which serves as a suction disk while 
the radula is at work on the clam shell. No evidence of the presence of acid 
has been presented so far. Once the clam is perforated, the long proboscis is 
wiggled down into the flesh of the clam and the moon shell is able to remove 
most of the flesh without opening up the valves of the clam. Some Murex 
Snails and the Busy con Whelks open their clam victims by applying suction 
with the sole of the foot and by prying apart the valves with the edge of the 
outer lip of the shell. 

The large group of rachiglossate snails (those having three large teeth 
in each radular row) are for the most part predators. The Tun Shells and 
Cassis Helmet Shells feed upon live sea urchins. The Xancus Chanks, Busy con 
Whelks and others feed upon live clams. The Nassa Mud Snails, however, 
are purely scavengers, and their ability to detect the odor or taste of spoiled 
meat in the water is highly developed. Among the toxoglossate snails (those 
with tiny, needle-like, harpoon-shaped teeth as shown in figure i), the cones 
and Terehra shells have a highly developed poison gland and duct which are 
presumably used in quieting their prey. 

Vegetarians are found among the more primitive gastropods. All of the 
Hmpets, nerites, trochids and turban snails graze on seaweeds. However, many 
of the "middle-class" snails, among them the ceriths, Modulus, and some 
periwinkles, limit their feeding to swallowing mud detritus on the bottom 



Life of the Snails 23 

from which they obtain small algal cells and diatoms. The common Atlantic 
Shpper Shell feeds in the same manner as the oyster, and its stomach is found 
to contain the same diatomaceous food. Just as in the oyster, a food current 
of water is set up in the mantle cavity and the pectinate gill acts as a food 
sieve. The food particles are entrapped on the gills by a mucus secreted by 
an endostyle which is located at the base of the gill. Tiny cilia move the 
food along a groove on the side of the body to a pouch located near the 
mouth where it is then taken in up through the proboscis. Turritella comrminis of Europe buries itself in mud and has a ciliary feeding habit. This 
snail remains for days in one spot just below the surface of the mud. An 
inhalant depression in the mud is made by lateral movements of the foot, and 
the action of thousands of cilia creates a current which brings food-laden 
water into the mantle cavity. There is a unique exhalant siphon constituted 
by two overlapping folds, and through this are expelled water and fecal 
pellets without disturbing the surrounding mud. 

The most extreme modifications in the entire molluscan phylum have 
occurred in connection with the feeding habits of certain parasitic snails. For 
years the Entoconcha snails found inside the Synapta sea cucumbers were 
thought to be some form of parasitic worm. The "head" of the mollusk is 
attached in leech-like fashion to a blood vessel of the host, and its worm-like 
body is embedded in the gonads of the sea cucumber. The adult parasite has 
no shell, sensory organs, nervous system or radula. It is little more than a 
tube adapted to absorbing the blood of the host and carrying on self-fertilization. Were it not for the tiny young found inside the adult with their 
small shell and operculum, it is doubtful if these creatures would ever have 
been thought to be mollusks. 

The passage of food from the buccal cavity, through the esophagus to 
the stomach is facilitated by muscular contractions of the wall of the alimentary tract and by saliva produced by the two salivary glands. The hind end 
of the esophagus may be modified into a gizzard, and in many Bubble Shells, 
especially Scaphander, there are several large, cucumber-shaped plates armed 
with hard corrugations which grind the food into small particles. The stomach proper consists of a simple enlargement of the digestive canal. Its wall 
