much wider than high, but some specimens (pi. 2 2h) are as wide as high and 
globose in shape. Operculum corneous, brown, and thin. This is a very common sand-lover found along our eastern coasts. Compare young specimens 
with Natica livida. 



NATICIDAE 187 

Subgenus Glossaulax Pilsbry 1929 
Polinices reclusianus Deshayes Recluz's Moon-shell 

Plate 2oi 

Crescent City, California, to Lower California. 

1V2 to 1V2 inches in length, very heavy for its size. Spire moderately to 
quite vi^ell elevated. Exterior semi-glossy, grayish with rusty-brown or greenish stains. Characterized by a large, tongue-like callus, brownish or white in 
color, which may or may not cover the entire umbilicus. There is a strong 
white, reinforcing callus at the top of the inside of the aperture. Operculum 
translucent, reddish brown. The shape of shell and degree of development of 
the umbilical callus is variable, and has received various names — alms Arnold 
and imperforatus Dall. A common shallow water species also found as deep 
as 25 fathoms. 

Polmices draconis Dall Drake's Moon-shell 

Figure 43a 

Alaska to Lower California. 

2 to 2 % inches in length, very similar to Lunatia leivisi, but with a wider 
more elongate umbilicus, and with a very small, almost obsolete callus above 
the umbilicus. Uncommon in waters from i o to 2 5 fathoms. 

Genus Sigatica Meyer and Aldrich 1886 
Sigatica carolinensis Dall Carolina Moon-shell 

Plate 22I 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

^/4 inch in length, white, glossy, ovate, fairly thin-shelled; umbilicus 
deep, round, without a callus. Characterized by 2 smooth nuclear whorls, 
followed by 3 whorls which are finely grooved by about 20 spiral lines. 
Suture well-channeled. Operculum paucispiral, corneous, its early whorls 
thickened and raised somewhat. S. holograpta McGinty is so similar that it 
may well be this species. Dredged 20 to 95 fathoms; not uncommon. 

5. se?nisulcata Gray from West Florida and the West Indies reaches 34 
inch in size, has 5 to 6 spiral Hnes cut into the top third of the whorl, and a 
few within the umbilicus. Often confused with Polinices lacteus. Rare. 

Genus Amauropsis Morch 1857 
Amaiiropsis islandica Gmelin Iceland Moon-shell 

Plate 2 2r 

Arctic Seas to off Virginia. 

I to 1^/2 inches in length, % as wide, rather thin, but strong. Suture 
