South half of Florida and the West Indies. 

I to 1 34 inches in length, oblong in outline. Much like L. sowerbii, but 
larger, a delicate mauve to pinkish, and with a bluish-black orifice. Inside 
grayish to dirty-white. Not uncommon under rocks. Formerly called L. 
cancellata Sowerby. 

Genus Lucapinella Pilsbry 1890 

Shell depressed, conical, less than % inch, with a large orifice and thickened margins. 

Lucapinella limatula Reeve File Fleshy Limpet 

Plate lyi 

North Carolina to south half of Florida and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, resembling L. soiverbii, but smaller with a proportionFISSURELLIDAE 99 

ately larger apical hole which is sharp at its top edge and which is nearer the 
center of the shell. The ends of the shell are slightly turned up and the sides 
are slightly concave. Sculpture of about 2 dozen heavily scaled, radial ribs 
and numerous, fine, thread-like concentric ridges. Color whitish with weak 
mauve or brown discoloring. Commonly dredged off southeastern Florida, 
from 6 to 60 fathoms. 



Lucapinella callomarginata Dall Hard-Edged Fleshy Limpet 

Plate i8e 

Bodega Bay, California, to Nicaragua. 

% to I inch in length, narrower at the anterior end, quite flat. Base flat 
and usually with strong crenulations on the under edge. Sides slightly concave. Apical hole narrowly elongate, slightly nearer the anterior end, about 
Vb the length of the shell and with flat inner sides. Sculpture coarsely cancellate with the radial ribs stronger and often scaled. Color dark-gray with 
irregular, darker, radial color-rays. Rather rare under rocks in the low tide 
zone. 

Genus Megathura Pilsbry 1890 
Megathiira cremilata Sowerby Great Keyhole Limpet 

Plate 1 8a 

Monterey, California, to Cedros Island, Mexico. 

2% to 4 inches in length, Vo as high. Apical hole large, with rounded 
sides, % the length of the shell, and bordered externally by a white margin. 
Interior glossy-white. Basal edge finely crenulate. Exterior finely beaded 
and light mauve-brown. Animal much larger than the shell, with a massive, 
yellow foot and a black or brown mantle that nearly covers the entire shell. 
Common in many low-tide, rocky areas, such as breakwaters. 

Genus Megatebennus Pilsbry 1890 
Megatebennus bimaculatus Dall Two-Spotted Keyhole Limpet 

Plate i8d 

Alaska to Tres Marias Islands, Mexico. 
