Hipponix barbatus Sowerby (Bearded Hoof-shell) from the same region 
is limpet-shaped, with coarse, nodulated ribs which are largest on the anterior 
slope of the shell. The edge of the shell is strongly serrated with cut lines. 
The periostracum is very shaggy especially on the middle of the anterior slope. 
Common. 

Family VANIKOROIDAE 
Genus Vanikoro Quoy and Gaimard 1832 

Vanikoro oxychone Morch West Indian Vanikoro 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

Vz inch in length, solid, strong and pure white. With 3 whorls. Characterized by its large aperture, by its deep, narrow, arched umbilicus and 
straight, rounded, pillar-like columella and by the 10 or 12 beaded, spiral 
cords on the last whorl. Small axial threads tend to give a slightly cancellate 
sculpture. Apex glassy and smooth. Suture well-indented. Uncommon in 
shallow water. 

Superjamily CALYPTRAEACEA 

Faimly TRICHOTROPIDAE 

Genus Trichotropis Broderip and Sby. 1829 

Trichotropis borcalis Broderip and Sowerby Boreal Hairy-shell 

Plate 24d 

Arctic Seas to Maine. Arctic Seas to British Columbia. 

V2 to % inch in length, with 4 to 5 carinate whorls. Shell not very 
strong, chalky-white and covered with a thick, brownish periostracum which 
has hairy spicules on the region of the shell's 3 major spiral cords. UmbiHcus 
chink-like, bordered by a large, spiral cord. Spire usually eroded badly. 
Numerous, crowded axial threads present. A common cold-water species 
found from below low water to 90 fathoms. 

Trichotropis cancellata Hinds Cancellate Hairy-shell 

Plate 24b 
Bering Sea to Oregon. 

% to I inch in length, 5 to 6 rounded whorls bearing between sutures 
4 to 5 strong spiral cords, between which there may be small axial ribs which 
produce a cancellate sculpturing. Spire high, rather pointed. Aperture a little 



168 American Seashells 

more than H the length of the shell. Periostracum thick, brown and with 
long spicules over the region of the cords. Commonly dredged in cold, 
shallow water. 

Trichotropis bicarinata Sowerby Two-keeled Hairy-shell 

Plate 24a 

Arctic Ocean to Alaska. Arctic Ocean to Newfoundland. 
