gill lamellae in each gill which start just behind the juncture of the head and foot and 
extend all the way back to the posterior 
margin of the mantle where there is located 
a small, single-lobed lappet. Common from 
I to 15 fathoms. 

In the north, the exterior color is buff to ashen, rarely reddish. On the 
west coast of Florida, where they are commonly found attached to Finna 
shells, the colors vary from light-gray, mauve, yellow to white, and are 
commonly with a darker or lighter streak down the center or rarely with 
longitudinal blue stripes. 

Genus Ischnochiton Gray 1847 
Subgenus Stenoplax Carpenter 1878 

Ischnochiton floridanus Pilsbry Florida Slender Chiton 

Miami to Dry Tortugas, Florida. 

I to 1 34 inches in length, about 3 times as long as wide, elevated, with 
the valves roundly arched, not carinate. Color whitish to whitish green with 
markings of olive, blackish olive or gray. Lateral axeas raised and with wavy, 
longitudinal riblets which are commonly strongly beaded. Central areas 
with wavy, longitudinal ribs. Interior of valves mixed with white, blue 
and pink, rarely all pink or all white. End valves concentrically (or rarely 
axially) beaded. Intermediate valves with i slit, posterior valve with 9. 
Girdle marbled with bluish and gray, and densely covered with round, solid, 
finely striated scales. Moderately common. 

Ischnochiton purpmascens C. B. Adams (Purplish Slender Chiton) 
from the West Indies is very similar, but the end valves and lateral areas 
have smooth, instead of beaded, wavy, concentric riblets. Common. 

Ischnochitoji papillosus C. B. Adams Mesh-pitted Chiton 

Tampa to the Lower Keys and the West Indies. 



ISCHNOCHITONIDAE 3 2 1 

% to /4 inch in length, oval. Moderately sculptured and without very 
distinct lateral areas. It has microscopic, even, quincunx pittings on the upper 
surfaces of the valves. End valves with concentric rows of fine, low beads. 
Lateral areas with fine, wavy, longitudinal, incised lines. Posterior slope of 
posterior valve is concave and with 9 slits. Color whitish with heavy mottlings 
of olive-green; rarely with white spots. Girdle narrow, colored with alternating bars of white and greenish brown. Scales like microscopic split peas 
which are finely striated. A fairly common shallow-water species. 



Ischnochiton magdalenensis Hinds Magdalena Chiton 

Coos Bay, Oregon, to Lower California. 

2 to 3 inches in length, elongate. Color a drab greenish, commonly 
whitish due to wear. Central areas with fine, irregular, longitudinal cuts 
and with diamond-shaped pits near the lateral areas. Lateral areas prominently 
raised and with 10 to 12 coarse, radial ribs of gross, low beads. Front slope 
of anterior valve straight. Interior of valves bluish with the posterior end of 
