escape as free-swimming larval forms. The latter are known as veligers and 
possess special organs for swimming. The larval shell is often quite different 
from the adult shell and, in some species, there may be an extra shell or 
echinospira encasing the entire veliger. 

There are many types of tgg cases, and some of these are illustrated in 
figures 8 and 9; others are briefly described under the generic or family 
discussions in the identification section. Several types of egg-laying may be 
found within a single family or even genus. 

1. Eggs Laid in Capsules and Attached to the Bottom: 

Rissoidae, Caecum, Epitomum, Thais, Miirex, Coins, Neptunea, Busycon, Buccinum, MeloTigena, Nassarius, Bela, Mangelia, Voluta, Conus, Columbella, Fusinus, Cancellaria, Marginella, Neritidae and others. Of these, 
some have nonpelagic development: some Murex, Cojjus, Natica and most 
Marginella; others have pelagic, free-swimming young: Nerita, some 
Murex, some Conus and some Natica. 

2. Eggs Laid in Gelatinous Masses or Strings: 

Acmaea, Gibbula, Fissurella, Lacuna, Littorijia obtusata, some Turritella, Bittium, Triphora, Cerithium, Capulus, Strombus, Aporrhais, Cassis, 
all opisthobranchs and heteropods. 

3. Eggs Laid in Capsules and Protected by the Female: 

Crepidula, Calyptraea, Janthina, Cypraea, Hipponix, Vermetus. 

4. Eggs Laid in Sandy Collars: 

Folinices and Natica. 

5. Eggs Shed and Developing Suspended in Water: 

Some Acn/aea, some Gibbida, Tectarius, some Littorina, Haliotis, and 
the heteropods, Atlanta and Oxy gyrus. 

In some groups of snails which are more or less sedentary, the tgg capsules may be protected by the female. In the cap-shell, Hippojiix, the underside of the foot of the female has a tough, reinforced ridge of flesh to which 
she attaches her gelatinous tgg sacs. In some worm-shells, Verv^etus, whose 
shells are permanently attached to the rocks, the eggs are deposited on the 
inside of the female's own shell. 

The time and length of breeding differs among mollusks depending 
mainly on the geographical locality, the temperature of the water, phases of 
the moon and the inherent characteristics of the species. Some species spawn 
once a year for a few weeks only, while others may produce eggs half of 
the year as long as the temperature is suitable. 

The eggs, larvae and young have been described for many species by 



30 American Seashells 

famous workers such as Gunnar Thorson, Marie Lebour and others. The 
common European Periwinkle {Littorina Httorea) will serve here as an ideal 
example of the pelagic type of development. The female spawns two to 
twelve hours after copulation by the male. About 200 single q^^ capsules 
are shed during the night. During the entire breeding season of six months, 
the total number of tgg capsules per female is estimated at about 5000, and 
a half dozen copulations are necessary to ensure fertilization of all the eggs. 
The helmet-shaped capsules are shed freely and float about in the water. 
