Each contains from one to nine eggs. The free-swimming young, called 
veligers, hatch on the sixth day and remain afloat for two weeks or more, 
depending upon temperature conditions, then sink to the bottom and begin 
an adult snail's life of crawling. They reach maturity on the second or third 
year and may live for five to ten years. 

In contrast to this mode of spawning, the Left-handed Whelk of Florida 
{Busycon contrarhmi) lays its horny strings of t'g^g capsules during a relatively short period of a few weeks. On the west coast of Florida egg-laying 
usually takes place in the spring. The female digs down well below the 
surface of the sand and attaches the first few capsules to a buried rock or 
broken shell. As the process of extrusion of the t^g capsules continues, the 
female moves toward the surface until its siphon can protrude into the water 
to allow easy respiration. As more capsules are made, the string may loop 
out into the water above the hidden adult. From five to fifteen cases may 
be formed each day, and a completed two-foot-long string may have nearly 
a hundred capsules. Within each case there may be two to twenty-five eggs 
which in a few weeks will develop to quarter-inch-long young. These miniature replicas of the adults eat their way out of the case at a special "door" 
and commence crawling and feeding immediately. The Left-handed Whelk 
begins spawning at a relatively early age, commonly when no larger than 
three inches. In such cases the capsules are only a half inch in diameter, 
while larger females may produce capsules about the size of a half dollar. 



CHAPTER III 

Life of the Clams 



Of the approximate 15,000 species of existing clams or bivalves, four fifths 
live in the sea, while the remainder are inhabitants of fresh-water rivers, lakes 
and ponds. Throughout the seventy or so famihes of this class, the clams 
show an amazing diversity of ways of adapting themselves to almost every 
kind of aquatic environment. There are clams that swim, burrow, dangle by 
silken threads, others that are permanently cemented to rocks and corals, 
some that live a sedentary life of attachment to other marine creatures. In 
size, they vary from the 500-pound giant Tridacna clams of the East Indies, 
which reach a length of over four feet, to the pinhead-sized Amethyst Gem 
Shells {Gemma), which so heavily populate some of our intertidal flats. In 
ornamentation and coloration the clams are almost unexcelled in their wide 
range of beautiful hues and bizarre shapes. 

WHERE THEY LIVE 

The bivalves have selected a wide variety of ecological stations in life. 
While many must live in strictly marine waters, a few have adapted themselves to the brackish waters and estuaries and inland bays. One species, the 
'Coon Oyster of Florida and the West Indies, has "taken to the trees" and 
is able to withstand exposure to the air for several hours, or even days, 
between high tides. In its early, free-swimming stages, the oyster is carried 
by the rising tide in among the roots, trunks and overhanging boughs of the 
mangrove trees where it settles and attaches itself. Feeding, growth and 
reproductive activities take place only during the few short hours of high 

31 



32 American Seashells 

