the valves. There are 4 clumps of long, glassy bristles near the anterior valve 
and one on each side of the other valves. The clumps are set in cup-like 
collars of the girdle skin. End valves and lateral areas of middle valves covered with tiny, round, sharply raised pustules. The dorsal, longitudinal 
ridge is raised, narrow, distinct and smoothish except for microscopic pinpoints. Lower edge of girdle with a dense fringe of brown or bluish bristles. 
3 2 gill lamellae. The gills begin about % back along the side of the foot and 
do not extend quite so far back as the posterior mantle margin. A moderately 
common species in shallow water. A. astriger Reeve is the same species. 

Acanthochitona pygmaea Pilsbry Dwarf Glass-haired Chiton 

West Coast of Florida to the West Indies. 

^ to % inch in length, moderately elongate and colored cream, green, 
brown or variegated with these colors. Similar to A. spicnlosa, but smaller, 
and with its dorsal ridge triangular, less elevated and cut by longitudinal 
grooves. The pustules on the lateral areas and the end valves are round 
or oval. The clumps of bristles are the same. Not uncommonly found 
among rocks and dead shells at low tide. 

Acanthochitona balesae Pilsbry 1940 from the Lower Keys is very 
elongate, only % inch in length; the pustules on the lateral areas are proportionately larger and fewer, and the dorsal ridge is rounded and covered 
with small, granulose pustules. Rare at Bonefish Key, Florida. 

Genus Amiciila Gray 1842 
(Cryptochiton Middendorff 1847) 

Amicula stelleri Middendorff Giant Pacific Chiton 

Figure 66d 

Japan and Alaska to California. 

6 to 1 2 inches in length, oblong and flattened. The large, white, butterISCHNOCHITONIDAE 



319 



fly-shaped valves are completely covered by the large, leathery, firm girdle 
which is reddish brown to yellowish brown. Minute red spicules make 
the girdle feel gritty. Common in the northern part of its range. Formerly 
called Cryptochiton stelleri. 




Figure 67. Atlantic Coast chitons, showing from the underside the position and 
length of gills and the nature of the lappets, a, Ceratozona nigosa Sby., i to 2 
inches; b, Cryptoconchns floridaniis Dall, i inch; c, Calloplax jajieirejisis Gray, 
% inch; d, Chaetopleura apiculata Say, % inch; e, Tojiicia schranmti Shuttleworth, 
I inch; f, Chitoji tuber ciilata Linne, 3 inches. 



Family ISCHNOCHITONIDAE 

Genus Calloplax Thiele 1909 

