
I % inches in length, equally wide, with about 4 whorls. Characterized 
by 2 strong, spiral carinae at the periphery, by the wide, flattened columella 
and by the flaky, brown periostracum which is grossly spinose on the carinae. 
Uncommon just ofl^shore in cold water. 

Trichotropis insignis Middendorfl^ Gray Hairy-shell 

Plate 24c 

Alaska to northern Japan. 

I inch in length, similar to T. bicarinata but smaller, with a much heavier 
shell, weakly carinate with other numerous, uneven, spiral threads, and with 
a thin, grayish periostracum. Both this species and bicarinata are easily distinguished from the more common cancellata by their much shorter spires and 
large flaring apertures. Uncommon just offshore. 

Family CAPULIDAE 
Genus Capulus Montfort 18 10 
Subgenus Krebsia Morch 1877 

Capulus incurvatus Gmelin Incurved Cap-shell 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% inch in size, cap-shaped, white to cream, and with a very large, circular to slightly oval aperture, i /4 to 2 whorls. Spire small, usually tightly 
coiled, but sometimes partially free. Early whorls usually with small spiral 
cords, but these are frequently worn smooth. Sculpture of small, irregular, 
rounded growth lines which are crossed by numerous spiral cords which 
may be rounded or sharp. Periostracum thick, light-brown, with spirally arranged rows of small tufts. Muscle scar within the aperture is horseshoeshaped with the swollen end just inside the columella. Uncommon on rocks 
just below low water. I believe that C intortus Lamarck is merely a variant 
of this species. Compare with Hipponix antiquata which is much heavier, 
lacks the spiral cords and is more coarsely sculptured. 

Capulus calif ornicus Dall Californian Cap-shell 

Redondo Beach to Lower California. 



CALYPTRAEIDAE 169 

I % inches in diameter, Vs as high, obhquely ovate, fairly thin, and with 
a small, hooked-over apex. Shell w^hite, covered by a soft, fuzzy, light-brown 
periostracum. Interior glossy-white. A rather rare species found in 20 to 
30 fathoms attached to Pecten diegensis. 



Family CALYPTRAEIDAE 
Genus Calyptraea Lamarck 1799 

Calyptraea centralis Conrad Circular Cup-and-saucer 

Plate 21-0 

North Carolina to Texas and the West Indies. 

/4 to % inch in diameter, cap-shaped, with a circular base, and pure 
white in color. Apex central, small, minutely coiled and glossy-white. The 
