
3 to 4 inches in length, rather elongate, compressed and smooth. Posterior end shorter, but more expansive than the rather drawn-out anterior end. 
Right valve with the posterior lateral tooth separated into 2 teeth lengthwise 
by a long, deep channel. Color a smooth, ivory white, with a dull, light-tan, 
thin periostracum. Small gape at the posterior end. Do not confuse with 
Mactra nasuta which dips down at the ventral margin, has a shiny periostracum and a wide posterior gape, nor with Spisula falcata which is similar in 
shape, but chalky and with very convex ventral margin to the hinge just 
below the chondrophore. Moderately common. 



Spisula beinphilli Dall Hemphill's Surf Clam 

Figure 90b 

San Pedro, California, to Central America. 

Up to 6 inches in length, about % as high. Rather obese. Posterior end 
more obese and shorter than the downwardly swept, compressed anterior end. 
Periostracum grayish brown, dull, coarsely and concentrically wrinkled. The 
pallial sinus is moderately deep and inclined upward. Fairly common along 
the southern beaches of California. 



MACTRIDAE 449 

Genus Miilinia Gray 1837 
Miilinia lateralis Say Dwarf Surf Clam 

Plate 32-0 

Maine to north Florida and to Texas. 

% to V2 inch in length, resembling a young Spisula or Mactra, moderately obese, beaks quite prominent and near the center of the shell and pointing to\A'ard each other. Exterior whitish to cream and smoothish, except for 
a fairly distinct, radial ridge near the posterior end. Concentric lines plainly 
seen in the thin, yellowish periostracum. Distinguished from young Spisula 
solidissima which have a proportionately much larger chondrophore in the 
hinge and which have tiny, saw-tooth denticles on the lower anterior and 
lateral hinge-teeth. A very abundant species in warm, shallow water in sand. 



Genus Labiosa iMoller 1832 

Posterior slightly gaping. Shell fragile. Hinge with a prominent chondrophore. Cardinal teeth small and close to the chondrophore. Ligament 
submerged, except at the anterior end, and separated from the chondrophore 
by a shelly plate. Raeta Gray 1853 is the same. This is also Anatina Schumacher 181 7, not Bosc 18 16. 



Labiosa plicatella Lamarck Channeled Duck Clam 

Plate 32q 

North Carolina to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 

2 to 3 inches in length, Y:, as high, egg-shell thin, but moderately strong. 
Concentric sculpture of smoothish, distinct ribs which on the inside of the 
valves show as grooves. Radial sculpture of very fine, crinkly threads. Color 
