
2 to 3 inches in length. Hinge has 8 to 12 oblong grooves or sockets 
into which are set small, brown resiliums. Exterior with rough or smoothish 
growth lines. External color drab purplish gray to dirty-gray. Interior 
moderately pearly with stains of purplish brown or mottlings of blackish 
purple. This very flat, oval bivalve is commonly found in compact clumps 
on mangrove tree roots. Distinguished from /. radiatus by its flat, more 
regularly fan shape and darker color. 



ho gnomon radiatus Anton 1839 Lister's Tree Oyster 

plate 35a 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% to 2 inches in size, very irregular in shape, commonly elongate. 
Sometimes twisted and irregular. Hinge short, straight and with 4 to 8 very 
small, squarish sockets. Exterior rough with weak, flaky lamellations. Color 
a solid, translucent yellowish, but commonly with a few wavy, radial stripes 
of light purplish brown. Common on rocks at low tide. Formerly /. listen 
Hanley 1843.

Isognomon bicolor C. B. Adams (Lower Florida Keys, Bermuda and 
Caribbean) is heavier, more oval, and commonly with strong lamellations 
on the outside. It is usually darkly and heavily splotched with purple inside 
and out. Common. According to Lamy, /. vulsella Lamarck is a different 
species which is limited to the Red Sea. 

The Western Tree Oyster, Isognomon chemiiitzianus Orbigny, from 
the Coronado Islands to Chili, lives in crowded colonies under stones in 
shallow water. It resembles the above two species, is about i to 2 inches in 
size; its right valve flattish, left valve slightly swollen. It is the only Californian Isognomon. 



FINNIDAE 359 

Family PTERIIDAE 
Genus Pteria Scopoli 1777 

Fairly thin-shelled, moderately fat, and with the hinge ends considerably 
drawn out. Pearly inside. The right and left valves bear i or 2 small denticles 
which fit into shallow sockets in the opposite valve. 

Pteria colymbiis Roding Atlantic Wing Oyster 

Plate 35d 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

I /4 to 3 inches in length, obliquely oval with a long extension of the 
hinge line toward the posterior end. Left valve inflated. Right valve 
somewhat flatter and with a strong anterior notch for the byssus. Periostracum matted, brown and with cancellate fimbrications. Exterior color variable: brown, black or brownish purple with broken, radial lines of cream 
or white. Interior pearly with a wide, non-pearly margin of purplish black 
with irregular cream rays. Common from low water to several fathoms. 

The Western Wing Oyster, Pteria sterna Gould is very similar, 3 to 4 
inches in length, and deep purplish brown with occasional paler rays. Anchored in mud; from San Diego to Panama. Common. 
