should be considered a typical Tegiila. Moderately common, especially in 
the north. 

Tegula mo7itereyi Kiener Monterey Tegula 

Plate i8x 
Bolinas Bay, California, to Santa Barbara Island. 

I to 1/4 inches in length, about as wide. Conical in shape, with very 
flat-sided whorls and spire. Base almost flat. Surface smoothish, except for 
almost obsolete spiral threads. Umbilicus very deep, lined with i or 2 weak 
spiral cords. Columella arched, and with i prominent, pointed tooth. This 
rather rare species resembles a large Calliostoma. It is found on kelp in 
moderately deep waters. 

Family TURBINIDAE 
Subfamily LIOTIINAE 

The operculum in members of this subfamily is round, multispiral, and 
with a horny base on top of which are numerous rows of tiny calcareous 
beads. 

Genus Cyclostrevia Marry at 18 18 
Cyclostrevm cancellatum Marry at Cancellate Cyclostreme 

Southeast Florida, the Bahamas to Jamaica. 

/4 inch in diameter, flat-topped, 4 whorls, opaque-white. Widely and 
deeply umbilicate. Axial sculpture of 15 to 17 rounded, low ribs which encircle the entire whorl and are made nodulose in crossing the 1 2 smaller spiral 
cords. Periphery squarish, with a cord above, below and at the center. Rare 
from I to 17 fathoms. Cyclostrevia is a neuter, not feminine, word. C. 
amabile Dall from Cuba to Barbados is much rarer and difl^ers in being smaller, 
in having a thicker, more rounded lip, and in lacking axial cords on top of 
the whorls. 25 to 80 fathoms. 

Genus Liotia Gray 1847 
Liotia bairdi Dall Baird's Liotia 

Plate 17U 

North Carolina to Florida and Yucatan. 

/4 inch in length, not quite so wide; thick, rose in color. Whorls globose, the last with about i o spiral cords of tiny, prickly beads. Suture deeply 
channeled. Umbilicus very narrow and deep. Moderately common from 18 
to 85 fathoms. 



122 American Seashells 

Liotia fenestrata Carpenter Californian Liotia 

Plate i8u 

Monterey, California, to San Martin Island, Mexico. 

Vs inch in diameter; spire low, shell solid; deeply and narrowly umbilicate. Aperture circular, pearly within. Ash-white in color. Characterized 
by heavy cancellate sculpturing which makes the shell appear pitted by rows 
of deep, squarish holes. Uncommonly dredged from lo to 25 fathoms. L. 
cookeana Dall is not this species, as is commonly thought, but is a Cyclostrema. 
