
About I inch in length, extremely fragile, inflated and with a very short, 
inconspicuous ligament. Color translucent-white with a thin, greenish, glossy 
periostracum. This species was named inflatula Dall at a later date. 

Macoma brota Dall Brota Macoma 

Figure 88a 

Arctic Ocean to Puget Sound, Washington. 

3 inches in length, moderately elongate, moderately inflated and rather 
thick-shelled. Beaks % toward the posterior end. Resembles calcarea whose 
pallial sinus in the left valve, however, is more elongate, not as high and 
generally reaches nearer the anterior muscle scar. M. brota is larger and 
more truncate posteriorly than that species. Common. 

Macoma planhisciila Grant and Gale Grant and Gale Macoma 

Plate 30t; figure 88h 

Arctic Ocean to Puget Sound, Washington. 

About I inch in length. Extremely similar to calcarea, but porcellaneous, 
with a glossy, yellowish periostracum and more oval in shape. This species 
was thought by Dall and others to be ''''carlottejisis Whiteaves." 

Genus Gastrana Schumacher 1817 
Subgenus Meter omacovia Habe 1952 

Gastrana irus Hanley Irus Macoma 

Figure 88e 

Bering Sea to Los Angeles, California. Japan. 

Commonly 1% inches in length (rarely 3); oval-elongate, moderately 
inflated, very sHghtly twisted, if at all, at the posterior end. Pallial sinus in 
left valve almost reaches the bottom of the anterior muscle scar. Beaks 
slightly anterior. Common in Washington and Oregon. Formerly known 
as inqiiinata Deshayes. 



434 Anicriatn Seashells 

Aiacoma incongnm von Martens (fig. 88b) (Alaska to Washington) is 
similar, but more oval, with a more pointed slope at the beaks, a straighter 
posterior dorsal edge. Its upper pallial sinus line, after nearly reaching the 
anterior muscle scar, turns downward and then runs anteriorly before connecting with the paUial sinus. Common in Alaska. 

Genus Apoly metis Salisbury 1929 
Apolymetis intastriata Say Atlantic Grooved Macoma 

Plate 32y 

South half of Florida and the Caribbean. 

2 to 3 inches in length, elliptical, fairly thin but strong and all white in 
color. The shell is strongly twisted. At the posterior end, the right valve 
