
446 American Seashells 

Up to I % inches in length, moderately fragile, moderately elongate and 
with the beaks central. Characterized by pecuhar, concentric undulations on 
the beaks. This small species of Mactra is common in lagoons and bays of 
southern California. It lives 3 to 6 inches below the surface of the sand. 



Mactra nasuta Gould Gould's Pacific Mactra 

San Pedro, California, to Mazatlan, Mexico. 

Up to 3/4 inches in length, similar to calif ornica, but more oval at the 
ventral margin, without concentric undulations on the beaks, and with 2 very 
distinct, raised, radial ridges on the posterior dorsal margin. The whitish 
shell is glossy and the periostracum is shiny and yellowish tan. Not very 
common. 

Genus Spisula Gray 1837 

Spisiila soUdissima Dillwyn Atlantic Surf Clam 

Plate 32P 
Nova Scotia to South Carolina. 

Up to 7 inches in length (usually about 4 or 5 inches), strong, oval and 
smoothish, except for small, irregular growth lines. The lateral teeth bear 
very tiny, saw-tooth ridges. Color yellowish white with a thin yellowish 
brown periostracum. Common below low-water mark on ocean beaches. 
After violent winter storms, these clams are cast ashore in incredible numbers, some estimates giving an approximate count of 50 million clams along 
a ten-mile stretch. 

The subspecies shnilis Say (Cape Cod to both sides of Florida and to 
Texas) is more elongate, its anterior slope flatter, and its pallial sinus longer 
and not sloping slightly upward. In the left valve, the tiny double tooth, 
just anterior to the spoon-shaped chondrophore, is usually much larger and 
stronger. Moderately common, and commonly existing with the typical species in the northern part of its range. Compare with polynyma which has a 
larger pallial sinus. 



Spisula polynyma Stimpson Stimpson's Surf Clam 

Plate 31W; figure 26k 

Arctic Seas to Rhode Island. Arctic Seas to Puget Sound. Also Japan. 
3 to 5 inches in length, beaks very near the middle of the valve. Anterior 



MACTRIDAE 



447 



