% to I inch in length, moderately stout to somewhat slender, strong and 
without an umbilicus. 8 whorls with about 9 to 10 strong but thin costae 
which are very slightly reflected backwards and which are usually angulated at the shoulder, especially in the early whorls. The costae are usually 
formed in line with those on the whorl above and are fused at their points 
of contact. Outer lip thickened and reflected. Color china-white. One of 
the commonest Atlantic wentletraps found in shallow water to 25 fathoms. 
Do not confuse with E. humphrey si. 

Epitonium foliaceicostwm Orbigny Wrinkled-ribbed Wentletrap 

Southeast Florida to the Lesser Antilles. 



HIPPONICIDAE 165 

% to % inch in length, moderately stout, without an umbilicus, and 
similar to E. angulatum, except that the 7 to 8 costae per whorl are thinner, 
more highly developed and usually quite angular. Moderately common from 
low water to 120 fathoms. Alias muricata Sby., spina-rosae Morch and pretiosula Morch. 

Subgenus Gyroscala Boury 1887 
Epitonium lamellosum Lamarck Lamellose Wentletrap 

Plate 2 23 

South half of Florida and the Caribbean. Also Europe. 

% to I % inches in length, without an umbilicus. 1 1 whorls whitish with 
irregular, brownish markings. Costae thin, high, always white. Characterized 
by a fairly strong, raised, spiral thread on the base of the shell. Moderately 
common from low water to 33 fathoms. Ahas E. clathrmn of authors, not 
Linne. 

Epitonium rupicola Kurtz Brown-banded Wentletrap 

Plate 2 2e 

Cape Cod, Massachusetts, to Florida and to Texas. 

/4 to I inch in length, moderately stout to slender, and without an umbilicus. Color whitish or yellowish with 2 brownish, spiral bands on each 
side of the suture. Color often diffused. About 1 1 globose whorls, each of 
which has from 12 to 18 weak or strong costae. Former, thickened varices 
sometimes present. Base of shell with a single, fine, spiral thread. Formerly 
known as lineatum Say and reynoldsi Sby. Common from low water to 
about 20 fathoms. 

Epitonium indianorum Carpenter Money Wentletrap 

Forrester Island, Alaska, to Lower California. 

I inch in length, slender, pure white, of 1 1 whorls, each of which has 
13 to 14 sharp costae which are slightly bent backwards. The tops of the 
costae are slightly pointed. Fairly common offshore. 

Superfamily HIPPONICACEA 

Family HIPPONICIDAE 

Genus Cheilea Modeer 1793 
