Monterey to Lower California. 

Me inch in length, depressed turbinate in shape, with 4 to 5 whorls. Char128 American Seashells 

acterized by its very small size, and by about a dozen obliquely set, spiral 
bright-red lines. The top of the whorls may be solid red and with large, 
opaque-white spots. Umbilicus a mere chink-like depression. Operculum 
calcareous and white. Tricolia variegata Carpenter is the same (not Lamarck) . 
Common among weeds in tidepools and among kelps offshore. 



Fmnily NERITIDAE 
Genus Nerita Linne 1758 

Nerka peloronta Linne Bleeding Tooth 

Plate 4a 
Southeast Florida, Bermuda and the West Indies. 

% to i^ inches in length; grayish yellow with zigzags of black and red. 
Characterized by the blood-red parietal area which bears i or 2 whitish 
teeth. Operculum: underside coral-pink; one half of outer side smooth and 
dark-orange, other half smoothish or papillose and brownish green. Very 
abundant along the rocky shores facing the open ocean. It is a popular 
souvenir. 



Nerita versicolor Gmelin Four-toothed Nerite 

Plate 4b 
South % of Florida and the West Indies. Bermuda. 

% to I inch in length; dirty-white with irregular spots of black and red 
arranged in spiral rows; spirally grooved; outer lip spotted with red, white 
and black on margin. Parietal area slightly convex, white to yellowish and 
with 4 (rarely 5) strong teeth. Operculum: exterior brownish gray, finely 
papillose and slightly concave. Commonly associated with N. peloronta. 
Nerita variegata Karsten (1789) is invalid, since it appears in a non-binomial 
work. 



Nerita tessellata Gmelin Tessellate Nerite 

Plate 4f 

Florida to Texas, the West Indies and Bermuda. 

% inch in length, irregularly spotted with black and white, sometimes 
heavily mottled; coarsely sculptured with spiral cords of varying sizes. 
Parietal area concave, bluish-white and bearing 2 weak teeth in the middle. 
Operculum: exterior slightly convex, black in color. Commonly congregate 
in large numbers under rocks at low tide. Rare in northern Florida. Do not 
confuse with N. fulgurans Gmelin whose operculum is bluish white to yellowish gray, not black. 



NERITIDAE 129 
