
Cheilea equestris Linne False Cup-and-saucer 

Plate 2ip 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 



166 American Seashells 

/4 to I inch in size, cap-shaped, dull-white, and with an internal, delicate, 
deep cup which has its anterior third neatly sliced away. The base of the 
cup is attached near the center of the inside of the shell but slightly off in 
the direction in which the apex of the shell points. Exterior has small, axial 
corrugations or tiny cords, rarely spinose. Nucleus minute, spiral and glassywhite. Uncommon except in the West Indies. 

Genus Hipponix Defrance 1819 
Hipponix antiquatus Linne White Hoof-shell 

Plate 2 It 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. Crescent City, California, to 
Peru. 

/4 inch in size, white, heavy for its size, cap-shaped, and usually with a 
poorly developed spire which may be located either at one end of the shell 
or near the center. The nuclear whorls are spiral and glassy-white. There 
is a horseshoe-shaped muscle scar inside the shell. Axial sculpture of prominent, rugose ribs which are crossed by microscopic, incised lines. Periostracum 
absent or very thin and light-yellowish. Moderately common. Found clinging to rocks and other shells. 

Some Pacific northwest specimens are limpet-like in shape, flattish, circular, gray-white, with the apex near the center of the shell, and with smoothish, strong, circular cords (form cranoides Carpenter). Another form bears 
foliaceous concentric lamellae which are finely striate axially {serratus Carpenter from Monterey to Panama). 

Hipponix subrufus subrufus Lamarck Orange Hoof-shell 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

V2 inch in size, similar to antiquatus, but usually stained with light orangebrown, and with numerous, small spiral cords crossing concentric ridges of 
about the same size. This frequently gives a beaded surface. Periostracum 
fairly heavy, tufted and light brown. Moderately common. 

Hipponix benthopbilns Dall (Dall's Deepsea Hoof-shell) is well-spired 
in one plane and is entirely smooth. It is rare and comes from deep water 
off" Florida and throughout the West Indies. 

Hipponix szibruftis tiimens Carpenter Pacific Orange Hoof-shell 

Crescent City, California, to Lower California. 

Very close in characters to the Atlantic subrufus subrufus, but the shell 



TRICHOTROPIDAE 167 

is white in color (although the periostracum is yellow-brown), with more 
prominent spiral threads, and with coarser spiral threads in the young. Found 
offshore. 

