Phylloda sqiiamijera Deshayes Crenulate Tellin 

Figure 86h 

North Carolina to the south half of Florida. 

/4 to I inch in length, elongate, concentrically and finely ridged. Characterized by the strong crenulations on the posterior dorsal margin and by 
the hghtly hooked-down posterior ventral margin. Color whitish with a 
yellow or orangish tint. Moderately common from low water to 60 fathoms. 



430 American Seashells 

Compare with lintea which lacks the dorsal crenulations. Formerly placed 
in the genus Tellina. 

Genus Quadrans Bertin 1878 
Quadrans lintea Conrad Lintea Tellin 

Figure 86g 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

% to I inch in length, moderately oval, slightly inflated, quite strong 
and all white in color. Posterior dorsal slope with 2 radial ridges in the 
right valve, i in the left. Concentric lamellae numerous, sharp and minutely 
raised. Left valve with 2 extremely weak, long laterals, but these are welldeveloped in the right valve. Dorsal line of the palhal sinus meets the pallial 
line not far from the anterior muscle scar. Posterior twist to the right is 
fairly pronounced. Commonly dredged off the Carolinas (9 to 16 fathoms), 
uncommonly found in a few feet of water on the west coast of Florida, 
Formerly placed in Tellina. 

Genus Tellidora H. and A. Adams 1856 
Tellidora cristata Recluz White Crested Tellin 

Plate 30-0 

North Carolina to west Florida and Texas. 

I to 1/4 inches in length, roughly ovate, compressed and all white. 
The left valve is very flat, the right valve slightly inflated. Dorsal margins 
of valves with large, saw-tooth crenulations. A bizarre clam found uncommonly in shallow water. 

Genus Macoma Leach 18 19 

The Macomas are modified tellins which may be distinguished by (i) 
no lateral teeth; (2) usually dingy-white in color and of a chalky consistency; 
(3) there is a strong posterior twist; (4) the pallial sinus is larger in one valve 
than the other. 

Macoma calcarea Gmelin Chalky Aiacoma 

Figure 88f 

Greenland to Long Island, New York. Bering Sea to off Monterey, 
California. 

1% to 2 inches in length. Oval-elongate, moderately compressed, but 
somewhat inflated at the larger, anterior half. Beaks % the way toward 
