
ing secreted and carried to the food grooves bordering the gills, along which 
the food-laden strands are carried to the mouth. 

Our common Atlantic Oyster and those in France are frequently found 
with green gills. The "green oysters" of Marennes, France, are famous 
for their supposed medicinal qualities. Americans are incHned to shy from 
* 'green oysters," because they fear the color may be a sign of spoilage. 
Oysters feeding upon the small diatom, Navicula ostrearia, digest these singlecelled plants and absorb from them large quantities of blue pigment. In the 
tissues of the oyster's gills the pigment appears in the form of a sickly but 
quite harmless green. Occasionally, however, our oysters may take on a 
general greenish tint, not due to diatoms but to an increase in the amount 
of copper in the tissues. Such oysters have a rather brassy taste. 



\ I 




Figure 12. Siphons of bivalves projecting above the sand bottom. Mya (b) is a 

suspension feeder, the others deposit feeders, a, Tellina and Macoma; b, Mya; c, 

Gari; d, Donax; e, Tr achy car dhim. (After C. M. Yonge 1949.) 

The clam has considerable choice in what it wishes to eat, and it can 
reject undesirable particles of sand or oversized pieces of food. The gills 
and the two fleshy palps, or flaps guarding the mouth, help in sorting out 
the right-sized organisms. Acceptable food is taken into the funnel-shaped 
mouth, passed through a short esophagus and enters the stomach. Inside the 
stomach, a further selection of food may take place with indigestible matter 
being passed on immediately through the intestine. The best food passes from 
the stomach into the digestive gland where it is broken down chemically 
and absorbed into the blood stream. 





TELLINI\ CHLf\MYS MYTILUS VOLSELLA 

Fi(;i!KK 13. Fecal pellets of niollusks are characteristic in shape and may aid in 
identification of genera and species. (After H. B. Moore 193 1.) 



Life of the Cla?ns 37 

Lying close to the stomach is a sac which contains a cucumber-shaped, 
jelly-hke crystaUine style. The end of this style projects into the stomach. 
It rotates clockwise and dissolves its enzymes in the stomach which aid in 
digesting the food, that is, in converting starch into sugar. The style, numerous ciha and the furrows on the stomach wall aid in churning the food. 

The fecal pellets of mollusks are often very distinctive for the various 
genera and species. Some are cylindrical rods, others elongated strings or 
ribbons, and a few consist of strands wrapped up in round balls. In crosssection, some rods are characteristically bi- or trilobed. 

Feeding is not done at all times, although a great part of a bivalve's life 
