in or on dead or live Pinna shells. 



Atrina serrata Sowerby Saw-toothed Pen Shell 

Plate 27V 

North Carolina and south half of Florida. 

Similar in size and shape to rigida, but covered with many more, much 
smaller, sharp spines. It is usually thinner-shelled and lighter in color. Commonly washed ashore with rigida. 

Super jamily PECTINACEA 

Family PLICATULIDAE 

Genus Plicatula Lamarck 1801 

Shell trigonal or spathate, thick-shelled and attached by either valve 
to rocks or other shells. Sculpture of broad, radial ribs. Hinge with a narPECTINIDAE 361 

row, elongate chondrophore which is flanked on each side by a fluted tooth 
and a socket. 

Plicatula gibbosa Lamarck Kitten's Paw 

Plate 356 

North CaroHna to Florida, the Gulf States and West Indies, 

About I inch in length, somewhat cat's-paw-shaped. Shell strong, 
heavy, with 5 to 7 high ribs which give the valves a wavy, interlocking 
margin. Hinge in upper valve with 2 strong, equally sized teeth; lower 
attached valve with 2 sockets in the hinge with 2 smaller teeth set rather 
close together. Color dirty-white to gray with red-brown or purplish lines 
on the ribs. A common intertidal to offshore species. 

Family PECTINIDAE 

Because of the great number of fossil and living species of scallops and 
the almost limitless modifications exhibited by them, there have been no 
less than 50 genera and subgenera proposed in this family by various authors. 
Doubtlessly, many more will be invented. Most, if not all, of these genera 
are closely integrated by connecting species. Workers have a choice of 
using the single genus, Pecteji, or employing a genus for nearly every species. 
We are arbitrarily employing only six genera — Pecte??, Aequipecten, Chla772ys, Placopecten, Lyropecteii and Himiites — and we cannot justify these 
on biological grounds. It may be noted that we have moved the glassy, thinshelled Propeamiisshim from the Pectinidae into a family of its own on 
anatomical grounds. This new family refers to what was once called "Amussiidae." True Aumsiwn, however, is merely a subgenus of Pecteii connected 
to it by a series of species in the Euvola group. 

Genus Pecten Miiller 1776 
Subgenus Pecten s. str. 

Pecten diegensis Dall San Diego Scallop 

Plate 336 

Cordell Bank, California, to Lower California. 

