radial cords. Interior glossy, yellow-white or tinted with light orange-brown. 
Commonly dredged in shallow water. 

Genus Crepipatella Lesson 1830 
Crepipatella lingiilata Gould Pacific Half-slipper Shell 

Plate 20k 

Bering Sea to Panama. 

H to % inch in diameter, thin, almost circular, low and with the apex 
near the edge of the shell. Characterized by its tannish to mauve-white, 
glossy interior which has a shallow deck which is attached to the main 
part of the shell only along one side. The middle of the deck often has a 
weakly raised ridge. Exterior wrinkled and brownish. A very common 
species found on rocks and on the shells of living gastropods. 

Genus Crepidula Lamarck 1799 

Crepidula fornicata Linne Common Atlantic Slipper-shell 

Plate 2im 
Canada to Florida and to Texas. 

% to 2 inches in size. Shelly deck extending over the posterior half on 
the inside of the shell. The deck is usually concave and white to buff. Its 
edge is strongly sinuate or waved in two places. Exterior dirty-white to 
tan, sometimes with brownish blotches and rarely with long color lines. 



CALYPTRAEIDAE 171 

Variable in shape, rarely quite flat, sometimes high and arched. They may 
be corrugated if the individual has lived attached to a scallop or ribbed 
mussel. A common littoral species. When collecting on the west coast of 
Florida, do not confuse with C. maculosa. C. fornicata has been introduced 
to the West Coast of the United States. 

Crepidula maculosa Conrad Spotted Slipper-shell 

AVest Coast of Florida to Vera Cruz, Mexico. 

Resembling C. fornicata, but often spotted with small, mauve-brown 
blotches and sometimes streaked. The edge of the deck is straight or only 
very slightly convex. There is an oval muscle scar on the inside of the shell 
just below and in front of the right anterior edge of the deck and the main 
shell. The young are very much like southern forms of C. convexa Say. 

Crepidula convexa Say Convex Slipper-shell 

Plate 2 in 

Massachusetts to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 

^ to ^ inch in size, usually highly arched and colored a dark reddish to 
purplish brown. Interior, including the deck, chestnut to bluish brown. 
Some specimens may be spotted. The edge of the deck is almost straight. 
There is a small muscle scar inside the main shell on the right side just under 
the outer corner of the deck (see also maculosa). Some specimens are thick 
