this species, although it is very doubtful. 

Tellina texana Dall replaces this species in the Gulf of Mexico. It has 
more distinct, crowded concentric lines, is more inflated and has very small, 
microscopic striae in most specimens. Compare with T. versicolor. 




Figure 86. Interior views of southeast coast Tellins, showing outline shapes and 
pallial sinus scars, a, Tellifia lineata Turton, i y.i inches; b, T. tmnpaejisis Conrad, 
y., inch; c, T. mera Say and projnera Dall, % inch; d, T. sybaritica Dall, % inch; 
e, T. similis Sowerby, i inch; f, T. agilis Stimpson and sayi Dall, ^ inch; g, 
Qjtadrajjs lintea Conrad, % inch; h, Fhylloda sqiiajnijera Deshayes, % inch. 

Tellina versicolor DeKay DeKay's Dwarf Tellin 

New York to the south half of Florida and the West Indies. 

/4 inch in length, very similar to T. agilis, but more elongate, colored 
white, red, pink or rayed, is more inflated, and has a nearly straight instead 
of curved ventral margin. The exterior of versicolor has a brighter iridescence. The pallial sinus is much closer to the anterior muscle scar. 



Tellina mera Say 

Eastern Florida and the Bahamas. 



Mera Tellin 

Figure 86c 



/4 to % inch in length, roughly elliptical, moderately inflated, pure 
opaque-white in color. Fairly thin but strong. Beaks fairly large for a Tellin, 
touching and pointing toward each other and located nearer the posterior 
than the center of the shell. The valves show hardly any posterior bend or 
twist. Exterior smoothish with fine, irregular, concentric lines of growth 
more evident near the margins. Moderately common in shallow water between tides. Compare with promera and tampaensis. 



424 America?! Se ash ells 

Tellina promera Dall Promera Tellin 

Figure 86c 

South half of Florida and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, very similar to 77iera, but larger, more inflated, thickershelled, more oval and with the umbones a little closer to the center of the 
shell. This may be only a subspecies of mera. Quite common on both sides 
of Florida. 

Tellina tampaensis Conrad Tampa Tellin 

