H to /4 inch in length, moderately slender. Characterized by 10 to 14 
large, square notches along the suture of each whorl. Ribs are rather weak. 
Surface, in fresh specimens, microscopically pitted. Color grayish white. 
Not uncommon from low water to 90 fathoms. O. crenata Linne (same 
range, but also the Eastern Atlantic) is larger, its whorls more strongly 
shouldered, and the notches at the suture are much weaker and more numerous. 

Opalia UDrobleiDskii Morch Wroblewski's Wentletrap 

Plate 20) 

Forrester Island, Alaska, to off San Diego. 

I to I M inches in length, slender, heavy; looks beachworn; grayish white 
in color, often stained purple from the animal's dye gland. With 6 to 8 low, 
pronounced, axial, wide ribs. Base of shell bounded by a strong, smooth, 
low, spiral cord. Fairly common. O. chacei (Chace's Wentletrap) is probably 
a southern representative of this species. 

Opalia insculpta Carpenter Scallop-edged Wentletrap 

Southern California to west Mexico. 



EPITONIIDAE 163 

Vo X.0 % inch in length, dull whitish, 7 to 8 whorls, moderately slender. 
Characterized by the smoothish sides of the whorls and by the spiral ramp 
below the suture which bears 12 to 14 short, horizontal ribs per whorl. 
Early whorls may have weak axial ribs running from suture to suture. Spinal 
sculpture of microscopic, numerous scratches. O. crenimarginata Dall is this 
species. Very common among rocks at low tide. 

Genus Ainaea H. and A. Adams 1854 
Amaea iititchelU Dall Mitchell's Wentletrap 

Plate 2zi\ figure 4oh 

Texas coast to Yucatan. 

I % to 2% Inches in length, thin but strong; without an umbilicus. With 
about 1 5 rather strongly convex, pale-ivory whorls which have a dark brownish band at the periphery and a solid brown area below the basal ridge. 
About 22 low, irregular costae per whorl. Numerous spiral threads are fine, 
and produce a weak, reticulated pattern. Not very common, but occasionally 
washed up on Texas beaches. 

Subgenus Scalina Conrad 1865 
{Ferminoscala Dall 1908) 

Amaea retifera Dall Reticulate Wentletrap 

Figure 4od 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida to Barbados. 

I inch in length, elongate, thin but strong; with about 16 whorls which 
are beautifully reticulated by strong, sharp threads. Color straw to palebrown with 2 light and narrow brownish bands, one above and one below 
the periphery. Commonly dredged off Florida from 13 to 120 fathoms. 

