


Figure 45. a, Murex {Miirexiella) hidalgoi Crosse (Atlantic); b, A/z/r ex (Favartia) 
celhdosiis Conrad (Atlantic); c, Mzirex (Pterynottis) trialattis Shy., form carpenteri 
Dall (Pacific); d, Murex {Maxnjoellia) santarosmm Dall (Pacific). All reduced %. 



Subgenus Favartia Jousseaume 1880 
Murex cellulosus Conrad Pitted Murex 

Figure 45b 

North Carolina to Florida, the Gulf of Mexico and the West Indies. 

I inch in length. Shell rough, with 5 to 7 poorly developed fluted varices. 
It rarely develops spines, but when present they are short and stubby with 
a thin webbing connecting each spine in the varix. The siphonal canal 
strongly upturned. Aperture small, almost round. Color a dull grayish white. 

This is one of the smallest and most compact species of Murex on the 
Atlantic Coast and is often found in shallow, intertidal waters, especially near 
oyster beds where it probably does moderate damage to young oysters. Its 
identification is made difficult when the siphonal canal has been broken off 



MURICIDAE 205 

completely. A deep water form, M. celhilosiis levimilus Dall (pi. 25J), of 
more delicate sculpturing and with brown markings, is found off the coast 
of North Carolina and eastern Florida. An inch-long, chubby subspecies, 
nuceus Morch (pi. 251), with a shorter and wider siphonal canal and heavily 
scaled varices, occurs in the West Indies but has been collected by Dr. J. S. 
Schwengel on Tea Table Key, Lower Florida Keys, and off Fort Walton 
by Mr. L. A. Burry, 



Subgenus Pterynotus Swainson 1833 
Section Pteropurpura Jousseaume 1880 

Murex bequaerti Clench and Farfante Bequaert's Murex 

North Carolina south to Key W'est. 

1 to 2% inches in length. Spire high. No spines. Each varix is a high, 
rounded, thin plate or web. Between these varical webs there is a single, 
low, rounded nob. Color a uniform cream-white. A bizarre species which 
is the least spinose of our American forms. It is being collected in dredging 
operations along the west coast of Florida in increasing numbers, although it 
remains a rarity. It was named after one of our foremost malacologists at 
Harvard University, Dr. Joseph C. Bequaert. Dall identified this species as 
Murex macropterus Desh. 

Murex trialatus Sowerby Western Three-winged Murex 

Figure 45c 

