Plate 30s 

Cape Cod, Massachusetts, to east Florida and Cuba. 

y4 to Ys inch in length, ovate, inflated and fragile. Beaks inflated and 
turned forward. Exterior cream-white, with an irregular coating of fine 
granules which resemble sugar-coating. In fresh material, this granular 
deposit is also found on the inner margins of the valves. Slightly gaping 
at the posterior end. Interior of valves silvery white. Commonly dredged 
in a few fathoms of water off eastern Florida. 

Poromya rostrata Rehder (Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, to east Florida and the West Indies, 60 to 100 fathoms) is distinctly rostrate posteriorly 
and the granules are larger, more evenly spaced and generally cover the entire outer shell. It is relatively uncommon. 

Family CUSPIDARIIDAE 
Genus Cuspidaria Nardo 1840 

Shell small, globose in front, rostrate behind. Hinge with a posterior 
lateral tooth in the right valve. External ligament elongated. Resilium in a 
small, spoon-shaped fossette. Lithodesma distinct and semi-circular. 

Cuspidaria glacialis Sars Glacial Cuspidaria 

Figure 97b 

Nova Scotia to Maryland. Gulf of Mexico? Alaska. 

I to I % inches in length, rostrum moderately long and compressed laterally. Main part of valves fat and round. Sculpture consists of small, irregular growth lines. Periostracum grayish white. Shell cream to white. A 
common species dredged from 64 to over 1400 fathoms. C. Jeffrey si in the 
south is very similar, but smaller, with a rostrum* which in cross-section is 
much more oval and less compressed, and with hardly any periostracum. 



476 American Seasbells 

Cuspidaria rostrata Spengler Rostrate Cuspidaria 

Plate 32 j 
Cape Cod, Massachusetts, to the West Indies. 

% to I inch in length, with a tube-Hke rostrum which is ^ the length 
of the entire shell. The rostrum points slightly downward. Shell fairlysmooth with moderately coarse, concentric growth lines. Whitish in color 
and sometimes with granular lumps of gray mud attached to the rostrum. 
A^ioderately common in deep water (65 to over 1600 fathoms). 

Cuspidaria jeffreysi Dall Jeffrey's Cuspidaria 

Southern Florida and the West Indies. 

Ys inch in length, smoothish with only fine lines of growth. Rostrum 
moderately long; main part of shell round and fat. Similar to glacialis in the 
north which, however, is larger, more compressed, and whose rostrum points 
slightly downward instead of directly posteriorly as in this species. Creamy 
white in color. Uncommonly dredged in waters over 100 fathoms off Miami. 

Subgenus Leiovtya A. Adams 1864 
Cuspidaria granidata Dall Granulated Cuspidaria 

Off A4iami, Florida, and the West Indies. 
