North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 3 mm. in length, spindle-shaped, rather oblong, fragile, except for 
minute spiral lines at each end. Upper end of aperture ends in a very sharp, 
rather prolonged spike. Umbilicus rarely, if ever, present. Commonly 
dredged down to 150 fathoms. R. 7ni?iutus Bush is probably the young. 
R. aspinosiis Dall from the same region has the process poorly developed, 
and may be a form of this species. 

Fantily SCAPHANDRIDAE 
Genus Scaphander Montfort 18 10 

Scaphander piinctostriatus Mighels Giant Canoe-bubble 

Plate 26-0 

Arctic Seas to Florida and the West Indies. 

I to 1% inches in length, very lightweight, but moderately strong. 
Ovate-oblong. Apex with a slightly sunken area. Aperture constricted 
above, roundly open below. Columella simple, rounded. Shell smoothish, 
except for numerous, spiral rows of microscopic, elongate punctations. Color 
chalk-white, with a straw periostracum. Fairly common from 20 to 1000 
fathoms. 

Scaphander 720 bills \^errill (Noble Canoe-bubble) from off New England is the same size or smaller, has a proportionately much larger aperture, 
its outer lip is wing-like above, and the microscopic punctations are round. 
It is uncommon. A figure of S. luatsoni Dall is on plate 26m. 

Family ACTEOCINIDAE 
Genus Acteocina Gray 1847 

Acteoci'ua culitella Gould Western Barrel-bubble 

Kodiak Island, Alaska, to Lower California. 



282 American Seashells 

^ to % inch in length, moderately solid, oblong but more constricted 
at the upper portions. Spire of 5 whorls, elevated, pointed and with a tiny, 
pimple-like nucleus (usually eroded in northern specimens) . Suture narrowly 
and deeply channeled. Body whorl swollen at the lower half. With numerous microscopic, wavy, incised spiral lines. Color yellowish, sometimes with 
numerous golden-yellow, fine spiral lines. Columella is a single, raised spiral 
cord. Common in shallow water. A. cerealis Gould is probaby the same 
species. 

Genus Cylichna Loven 1846 
Cylichna gouldi Couthouy Gould's Barrel-bubble 

Plate 26r 

Massachusetts Bay to off Cape Cod. Arctic Seas. 

% inch (9 mm.) in length, fragile, chubby, with the spire usually sunk 
in and consisting of 4 or 5 whorls. Color dirty-white with a yellowish 
periostracum. The whorls are much more globose and the anterior end 
more constricted than in the much smaller species, Retiisa ohtusa. Formerly 
placed in the genus Retusa. Uncommon from 26 to 34 fathoms. 
