
2 to 3 inches in length, usually so worn and eroded as to eliminate the 
brown color and granulated sculpturing. Girdle thick, ashy white with 
an occasional black band, and matted with coarse, hair-like spines. Underside 
of valves colored a light-green, with the middle valves having a rather large, 
black splotch behind the sinus. Posterior valve with about 9 slits. Compare 
with Ceratozojja rugosa whose gills do not extend to the very posterior end 
as they do in this species. Common. 

Genus Tonicta Gray 1847 

Resembling Chiton in having pectinate or toothed sutural plates, but 
the girdle is naked and the upper surface of the valves have microscopic 
eyes. 

Tonicia schrammi Shuttleworth Schramm's Chiton 

Figure 676 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

About an inch in length, colored a brownish red to buff and with 
darker mottlings and speckles. Upper surface of valves glossy; interiors 
white with a crimson stain in the center. Lateral areas separated from the 
smooth central area by a strong, rounded rib. The central area has a peppering of about 75 tiny, black eyes. Head valve smooth except for 8 to 10 
broad rays of tiny, black eyes. Girdle naked, leathery and brownish to fleshcolored. Posterior valve with 14 slits. 36 lamellae in each of the 2 gills. They 
begin just behind the juncture of the head and the foot and extend back 
almost to the posterior end where there is a bilobed, small, fleshy lappet. 
A moderately common, intertidal species. 



CHAPTER IX 

Dentaliums and Other 
Tusk-Shells 

Class SCAPHOPODA 

Family SIPHON ODENTALUDAE 

The tusk-like shell is generally swollen in the middle and is entirely 
smooth. The foot is worm-like and can be expanded at the end into a 
round disk. The median tooth of the radula is almost as long as wide. 

Genus Cadulus PhiHppi 1844 

Shell small, white, without sculpture and swollen in the middle somewhat like a cucumber. Aperture constricted and very oblique. The genus 
is divided into four subgenera as follows: 

Apex with 2 deep slits Dischides ]t&.vtys i^6-] 

Apex with 4 deep slits Polyschides Pilsbry and Sharp 1 897 

Apex with 2 or 4 shallow slits Platyschides Henderson 1920 

Apex without slits: 

Obese, convex on both sides Cadulus s. str. 

