1 to 4 inches in length, smooth, except for the periostracum, which is 
commonly hairy and sometimes resembles a beard. Color light-brown flushed 
with deep rose and sometimes with several radial streaks of light-purple. Anterior ventral area with a deep chestnut splotch. Interior dull white, sometimes stained with bluish, rose or brownish. 

Recently killed specimens are commonly washed ashore in large numbers. A very common species. Formerly known as Volsella or Modiolus 
tulipa Linne or Lamarck. The subspecies found in Charleston Bay, North 
Carolina, and Tampa, Florida, is more compressed and a soft brown in color. 

Modiolus demissus Dillwyn Atlantic Ribbed Mussel 

Plate 28h 

Gulf of St. Lawrence to South Carolina. Introduced to California. 

2 to 4 inches in length, black-brown in color, often shiny, and with 
strong, rough, radial, bifurcating ribs. Interior bluish white with the posterior end flushed with purple or purplish red. This is the only ribbed Modiolus in our waters, but do not confuse it with Brachidontes recurvus which 



352 American Seashelh 

has a strongly curved beak, tiny teeth at the umbo, and is a soHd rosy-brown 
on the inside. Mytilus plicatuhis Lamarck is this species. 

The subspecies deriiissus granosissiimis Sowerby (both sides of Florida to 
Texas and Yucatan) is very similar but with almost twice as many ribs which 
are finely and neatly beaded. Common. 

Modiolus forjjicatus Carpenter California Horse Mussel 

Plate 29-0 
Monterey to San Pedro, California. 

About I inch in length, smoothish, inflated, light-brown periostracum 
which wears white at the beak end. Beaks curved strongly forward. Interior dull white. Found in moderately deep water, and rarely cast ashore. 
Associated with Haliotis rufescens. 

/Modiolus capax Conrad Capax Horse Mussel 

Santa Cruz, California, to Peru. 

2 to 6 inches in size. Periostracum thick, often with coarse hairs, 
chestnut-brown in color. Worn shell brick-red with bluish mottlings. Interior half white, half (ventral) brownish purple. Resembles figure of 
Modiolus americanus (PI. 35I). 

Genus Brachidontes Swainson 1840 
Subgenus Brachidontes s. str. 

Brachidontes citriniis Roding Yellow Mussel 

Plate 35! 

Southern Florida and West Indies. 

I /<i inches in length, elongate, with numerous wavy, fine axial ribs, colored a light brownish yellow outside, and inside mottled a metallic purplish 
and white. Anterior end has four very tiny white teeth. Bordering the ligament are about 30 very small, equal-sized teeth on the edge of the shell. Compare with B. exustus Linne which is wider. The genus is commonly misspelled Brachydomes. 

Subgenus Horinomya Morch 1853 
Brachidontes exustus Linne Scorched Mussel 

