Plate lyn 
Florida, the Bahamas and West Indies to Brazil. 

H to % inch in maximum diameter, depressed and with straight sides. 
Base ovate. Apex slightly in front of the middle and characterized by a blunt 
knob situated behind the posterior wall of the small, almost triangular orifice. 
Sculpture of 18 strong ribs with three smaller ones between, and with numerous concentric lamellae. Color milky-white or cream with 8 solid, broken 
or dotted black rays. Margin sharply crenulated with the denticles arranged 
in groups of four. Distinguished from cayenensis by the shape of the orifice. 
Moderately common, sometimes washed ashore. 

Diodora aspera Eschscholtz Rough Keyhole Limpet 

Plate 1 8b 
Cook's Inlet, Alaska, to Magdalena Bay, Mexico. 

I % to 2 ^ inches in maximum diameter, slightly less than Vs as high. The 
roundish to slightly oval, flat-sided apical hole is Mi the length of the shell 
and about Vs back from the narrow, anterior end of the shell. Sculpture of 
coarse radial and weaker concentric threads. Color externally is grayish 
white with about 12 to 18 irregularly sized, purplish blue, radial color bands. 
Commonly found clinging to rocks at low tide. In the south, dredged no 
deeper than 20 fathoms, and often found on the stems of kelp. 



98 Ainerican Se ash ells 

Diodora mur'vna Arnold Neat-ribbed Keyhole Limpet 

Crescent City, California, to Magdalena Bay, Mexico. 

% inch in length, similar to aspera, but smaller, with a lower, more 
rounded apex, with convex sides, a narrower shell, and with finer, much 
neater cancellate sculpturing. Color white or with few, or many, broken 
radial rays of gray-black. The apical hole is nearer the anterior end. Moderately common on rocks. This is D. densiclathrata of authors, not of Reeve. 

Genus Lucapina Sowerby 1835

Shell thin, low-conic, with the apex in front of the middle. Orifice 
rather large, roundish. Margin finely crenulated. Fleshy mantle covers most 
of the shell; foot larger than shell. 

Lucapina sowerbii Sowerby Sowerby's Fleshy Limpet 

Plate lyh 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies to Brazil. 

% inch in length, oblong in outline. With about 60 alternating large 
and small radiating ribs. Also with 9 to 1 3 raised, concentric threads. Color 
white to buff, with 7 to 9 small, splotched rays of pale brown. Inside whitish; 
callus sometimes bounded by an olive-green streak. Outside of orifice not 
stained. Uncommon under rocks at low tide zone. It has been erroneously 
called L. adspersa Philippi. 

Lucapina suffusa Reeve Cancellate Fleshy Limpet 

Plate 17k 

