
178 Afjierican Seashells 

Trivia maltbiana Schwengel and McGinty Maltbie's Trivia 

Plate 2IZ 

North Carolina to Florida and the Caribbean. 

/4 to /4 inch in length, globose, slightly flattened above, and characterized by its pale tannish pink, translucent color, by its fine riblets, and by 
having 24 to 28 ribs crossing the outer lip. Areas between the ribs are microscopically granular. Nuclear whorls visible through the last whorl. The dorsal groove is slight and the riblets nearly cross it. Moderately common just 
offshore to 50 fathoms. 

Trivia quadripiinctata Gray Four-spotted Trivia 

Southeast Florida, Yucatan and the West Indies. 

% to Yk inch in length, very similar to siiffiisa, but smaller, brighter pink, 
and with 2 to 4 very small, dark red-brown dots on the center line of the 
back. Riblets very fine, 19 to 24 crossing the outer lip. A very common 
species frequently found on beaches with the color dots worn away and the 
pink background rather faded. The riblets on the back are never pustulose 
as they tend to be in suffusa, nor is there any fine color speckling. 

Trivia antillarinn Schilder Antillean Trivia 

Southeast Florida and the Antilles. 

% to /4 inch in length, characterized by its deep reddish or brownish 
purple color. Elongate-globular in shape. Riblets smooth. With or without 
a faint dorsal groove over which the riblets usually cross. Outer lip with 1 8 
to 22 teeth. Dredged from 30 to 100 fathoms and rarely cast upon the beach. 
Formerly T. subrostrata Gray. 

Trivia candidula Gaskoin Little White Trivia 

Plate 2 ICC 

North Carolina to southeast Florida to Barbados. 

Vs, to ^ inch in length, characterized by its fairly globular shape, purewhite color, somewhat rostrate ends and by the smooth riblets that pass over 
the back. There is no dorsal furrow. Many specimens have only a few 
rather strong riblets of which 1 7 cross the inside of the outer lip. Another 
common form has more riblets (20 to 24 over the outer lip). It has been 
named leucosphaera Schilder {globosa of authors, not Gray). The forms 
intergrade. Trivia nix is also white, but is larger, more globose and with a 
strong dorsal groove interrupting the ribs. 



ERATOIDAE 179 

Trivia 7tix Schilder White Globe Trivia 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, globular, pure-white in color. Characterized by about 
2 2 to 26 riblets. Back with a strong groove interrupting the riblets. Alias 
T. nivea Gray. This is the largest and most globular of the white species 
found in the Western Atlantic. It is moderately uncommon. 
