unaware of their history, regarded them as native to the British Isles. 

The necessity of taking on ballast to make up for light cargoes on return 
sailing voyages has been responsible for many introductions of exotic shells 
to United States ports. The Money Cowrie has been picked up on one of 
the beaches of Cape Cod and was presumably jettisoned there by a sailing 
ship returning from the Indian Ocean. Ballast Point in San Diego was years 
ago a fairly good place to collect Hawaiian shells and, during World War II, 
a dozen or more species of British marine shells brought in ballast could be 
found in the vicinity of Long Island, New York. 

Wliolesale dispersal of marine shells has been carried out purposely by 
man on several occasions. With malice toward none, it may be said that considerable competition for the tourist trade exists between the Atlantic and 
Gulf coasts of Florida. Lackinq- the abundance of attractive seashells which 
are now considered prime tourist bait, the Atlantic coasters have made up 
for it by their aggressive ingenuity. It is reported that some Miami hotel 
owners have sent trucks to the rich beaches of the Gulf Coast, loaded them 
with molluscan spoils and brought them back to dump on their o\mi relatively 
shell-less beaches. 

Mollusks have been used extensively in art and literature, and throughout history we find numerous uses of shells as symbols. In many parts of the 
world, and especially along our motor highways, the scallop shell is a familiar 
trademark to motorists. The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company had 
its origin in London, England, during the middle of the last century when 



Man and Molhisks 11 

shell ornaments on boxes, screens and frames were popular in Early Victorian drawing rooms. The founding brothers, Marcus and Samuel Samuel, 
traded in shells from all parts of the globe, but as a side line they began to 
deal in the sale of kerosene. With the advent of the new "parafine oil" lamps 
and, later, the combustion engine, it was not long before they were marketing oil exclusively. Soon afterward their company was merged with the 
Royal Dutch interests. Until 1904 they used a trademark emblem patterned 
after the Sun-rayed Tellin (Tellina radiata of the West Indies), but this was 
later replaced by the now world-famous emblem of the European Jacob's 
Scallop {Fecten jacobaeus) . The scallop on the letterhead of the company's 
stationery is a fossil species from California. 

The 200-odd oil tankers of the Shell Oil Company are named after 
various genera of mollusks, the first ship launched being christened the S. S. 
Murex. Aboard each vessel, a specimen of her namesake mollusk is mounted 
in a glass exhibit case. Naming and securing shells for the first hundred ships 
was comparatively easy, but recently the choice of new names has resulted 
in the unfortunate selection of obscure genera based on rare and, in some 
cases, microscopic species. Some ships bear names based on the same genus 
— nautical synonyms! 

The use of the scallop is a very ancient one. As a source of food and 
as an eating dish it was used in prehistoric times. It is pictured on the coins 
of the early Phoenician outpost of Saguntum (now Murviedro, Spain) . All 
through the middle ages the scallop shell was used as a religious symbol, especially in connection with pilgrimages to the shrine of Saint James at Compostella and the crusades to the Holy Land. Three different popes granted 
a faculty to the Archbishops of Compostella to excommunicate all who sold 
scallop shells to pilgrims anywhere except in the city of Compostella. Today 
many of the family shields of England bear scallop shells, indicating that 
their ancestors made pilgrimages to the Holy Land. 

It is interesting to note that one of the earliest shell collections known 
to us contained a Jacob's Scallop. This was unearthed from the ruins of 
Pompeii, together with Comis textile and the Pearl Oyster of the Indian 
