as gabbi Tryon. Dead specimens are commonly washed ashore. Siphon 
studded with tiny, rounded flecks of chitinous material. 

Genus Pholas Linne 1758 
Pholas ca77ipechiensis Gmelin Campeche Angel AVing 

Plate 32t 

North Carolina to the Gulf States and Central America. 

3 to 4 inches in length, Mj as high, fragile, purc-\\iiite and closely resembling the False Angel Wing, Petricola pholadijonms, but lacking a 
toothed hinge and ligament, and having a glossy plate rolled over the beaks 



PHOLADIDAE 463 

which is supported by about a dozen, vertical, shelly plates. Not very common. 



Genus Xylophaga Turton 1822 
Xylophaga ivashingtona Bartsch Washington Wood-eater 

Washington and Oregon. 

% inch in length, globular and fragile. The large anterior gape has % 
of its area covered by a triangular callum in each upper and outer corner. 
Middle of inside of each valve reinforced by a small, strong, radial cord vi^hich 
is welded to the valve. Color yellowish white. Bores into pieces of waterlogged wood. Uncommonly collected in dredging hauls. 

The Atlantic species X. dorsalis Turton has much the same characters 
as the above species. It occurs from loo to 300 fathoms from the Arctic 
Seas to off Cape Cod. 

Genus Fenitella Valenciennes 1846 
PeJiitella penita Conrad Flap-tipped Piddock 

Bering Sea to San Diego, California. 

1 % to 3 inches in length, elongate to moderately short, rotund anteriorly, 
becoming compressed and narrow posteriorly where there is a leathery prolongation protecting the siphons. Anterior gape commonly closed by an 
eggshell-like, globose, callus plate which continues up on to the beak region 
in the form of a pair of rather large plates. Just in back of these there is a 
short, triangular plate or protoplax set on top of the middle of the dorsal 
region. Otherwise somewhat resembling the large Farapholas californica. 
Commonly found boring in rocks and shale. The form sagitta "Stearns" 
Dall lacks the calcareous covering over the foot gape. It is found with the 
typical form. 

Genus Fholadidea Turton 18 19 
Pholadidea ovoidea Gould Wart-necked Piddock 

Bering^ Sea to the Gulf of California. 

2 to 3 inches in length, very similar to pilsbryi, but oval in side view. 
About half of the anterior foot gape is covered by eggshell-like, smoothish 
calcareous material. It is not impossible that pilsbryi is an ecological form 
of this species. More studies in their natural history are needed. Moderately 

