Figure 16. The shipworm, Bavkia goiildi, in the act of fertilizing its neighbor. 
The spotted siphons are shown projecting from the wood in which these bivalves 
live. Arrows indicate the direction of water currents. X5. (Redrawn from W. F. 

Clapp 195 1.) 

In practically all cases, the sperm from bivalves is liberated into the 
water where it comes in contact with unfertilized eggs that have been previously released. In cases where eggs are retained by females, the sperm is 
sucked in through the inhalant siphon of the mother. Only one instance of 
pseudo-copulation is known. In 1951 workers at the W. F. Clapp Laboratories observed Gould's Shipworm {Teredo) placing their exhalant siphons 
down into their neighbors' inhalant siphons and discharging what is presumed to have been sperm. 



Life of the Clams 43 

HOW THEY SENSE AND SEE 

Bivalves are the least "brainy" of the moUusks and, although the central 
nervous system forms a rather complicated latticework throughout the body, 
its three pairs of "brains" are merely swellings or ganglia in the larger nerves. 
The pair of so-called cerebral gangUa control the actions of the lip palps 
near the mouth, parts of the mantle, and they also receive "nerve notices" 
from the tiny organs of balance, the otocysts. The second major pair of 
ganglia are the pedals which supply the foot. This pair is large in the clams 
that use the foot for digging or burrowing, but it is extremely small or 
aborted in the oysters in which the foot is not used. The third pair, or visceral ganglia, is usually the largest and supplies the adductor muscles and 
the visceral mass. The remarkable eyes of the scallops are connected with 
this pair of visceral ganglia. 

Many of the bivalve larvae possess true paired eyes, but in all cases these 
are lost when the animal transforms into the adult stage. The adults of a 
number of clams and mussels have developed pigment spots sensitive to 
changing light, but in the scallops true eyes are well-developed. When the 
shell of a scallop is open there can be seen just within the margin of each 
valve a line of small, brilliant, emerald-like dots on the mantle, each of which 
is a small eye fully equipped with cornea, focusing lens, receptive retina and 
conducting nerves. 

HOW THEY BURROW AND SWIM 

There are bivalves that swim, leap, crawl and burrow deeply in mud, 
sand or clay, and some that bore into wood, rock and even lead casings of 
submarine cables. Even the rock-bound oyster and the stuck-in-the-mud 
clam have their days of wandering about as free-swimming lan^ae before 
they settle down to a life of permanent attachment or clumsy crawling. 

The habit of swimming among adult bivalves is rare. The scallops and 
the Lima File Clams not infrequently swim. Only under the abnormal condition of finding themselves "unearthed" do the Eiisis Razor Clams and the 
Solemya Veiled Clams practice jet propulsion through the water. The Razor 
Clam swims backward in quick, short jerks by first extending its long cylindrical foot out from the shell and then suddenly withdrawing it with great 
force. This action, together with the closing of the shell valves, quickly 
forces the water within the mantle cavity out through the openings at the 
anterior or foot end. Thus the razor clam darts through the water with its 
pumping foot to the rear. In Solemya, the foot is in front of the animal 
as it swims. In this case the water is admitted around the foot but is expelled from the opposite end through the siphons. 



44 
