
o o 

frame. The free end of the net is not sew^n but merely tied together, so that 
the contents can be removed from the back. A net of this sort is apt to be 
ripped on rough bottom, so that a canvas sleeve or tube open at the back 
end should be sewn to the frame and allowed to cover the outside of the 
net. The Burches of California, renowned for their west coast dredging, 
have had better luck with a triangular dredge and copper screen net. The 
leading edges of these smaller types, which are rarely more than two feet 
across, should be sharp and flare a little in order to dig moderately deep into 
the bottom. 

Very remarkable results over mud bottoms may be obtained by using 
a small trawl. This is a modified dredge whose leading edges are of leadweighted lines. The mouth of the trawl is kept open by a small, slanting 
board at each end. This type has the advantage of not digging up large 
quantities of ooze and mud. 

In waters less than 150 feet in depth, the tow line may be of %" or 
%" manila rope, although the tendency for this to float in deeper waters 
necessitates the use of lead weights placed at intervals along the line. About 
300 feet of line will suffice for hauls not deeper than 100 feet. 

Only through trial and error will you learn the many tricks of dredging. 
The feel of the line will tell you whether the dredcre is cutting^ into mud or 



CollecMg American Seashells 61 

gravel or is skipping over the bottom. Sometimes it is next to impossible to 
dredge downhill, so try in the opposite direction if your dredge is failing to 
dig in. On dredges with iron bridles it is suggested that one arm be attached 
to the frame merely by a small cord, so that it will break loose and free the 
dredge should it snag on rocks or corals. 

When hauls are brought aboard they should be screened and washed 
to remove mud and sand. If this is not convenient, at least the extraneous 
material may be thrown away and the remainder put in sacks for home sorting. In tropical waters, gloves should be worn to prevent serious stinging by 
certain kinds of sponges. Be sure to make a record of the depth, location 
and date of haul. 

Fish and lobster men often bring up rare shells in their traps, and this 
suggests, of course, the possibility of setting one's own traps. Successful 
traps may be purchased or built M'ith a little ingenuity, if the entrances are 
made so that snails can easily enter. Dead fish or spoiled meat will attract 
the carnivorous gastropods, but to date no magical "catnip" has been found 
to lure the herbivorous species. Even simpler than the trap is the system of 
weighting a burlap bag of spoiled meat with rocks near the low-water line. 
Nassarius Mud Snails, Melongena Crown Shells and a host of other species 
may be collected nearby the next night. 

If you have yet to collect your first live Olive or Terebra shell, wade 
along the shores of a sandy bay on a quiet, moonlight night, and with the 
aid of a flashligrht follow aloncr the trails in the sand. A dozen daytime visits 

CO 

to the same locality will never compare to one hour of night collecting. Not 
only are sand-dwelling mollusks on the move, but in rocky regions the cowries, mitras and murex shells are out from under their hiding places and 
