
Plate 2ob 

Bering Sea to Puget Sound, Washington. 

% inch in length, solid, sharp lip, characterized by about a dozen strong 
spiral threads on the body whorl. Columella whitish. Shell dark grayish to 
rusty-brown; some with 2 or 3 wide spiral bands of whitish. A common 
littoral species of the north. 

Genus N odilittorina Martens 1897 
Nodilittorina tuberculata Menke Common Prickly-winkle 

Plate 191 

South Florida, the West Indies and Bermuda. 

^ to % inch in length. Shell rounded at the base. Several spiral rows 
of small, fairly sharp nodules on the whorls. Columella flattened, forming a 
slightly dished-out shelf. Color brownish gray. Operculum paucispiral. A 
common rock-dwelling species found near the high-tide line. Do not confuse with the extremely similar Echifiinus nodulosus Pfr. which has a multispiral operculum, and whose columella is not shelved. Erroneously listed in 
Johnsonia and other books as Tectarius tuberculatus Wood. 

Genus Tectarius Valenciennes 1833 
Subgenus Cenchritis Martens 1900 

Tectarius muricatus Linne Beaded Periwinkle 

Plate iQg 

Lower Florida Keys, the West Indies and Bermuda. 



RISSOIDAE US 

34 to 1 inch in length. Shell thick, with 1 1 rows of neat, rounded, whitish, evenly spaced beads on the last whorl. Columella grooved; umbilicus a 
narrow, oblique slit. Color of outer shell ash-gray. Interior dark-tan. Operculum paucispiral. One of the commonest West Indian littoral species, usually found well out of water on the rock cliffs. 

Genus Echininus Clench and Abbott 1942 
Subgenus Tectininus Clench and Abbott 1942 

Echininus nodiilosus Pfeiffer False Prickly-winkle 

Plate i9h 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

V2 to I inch in length. Base of shell squarish. Whorls with 2 spiral, 
carinate rows of sharp nodules in addition to 2 or 3 rows of smaller, blunt 
nodules. Columella not shelved. Color grayish brown. Operculum multispiral. Lives well above high-tide mark on rocky shores. Be sure not to 
confuse with Nodilittorina tuberciilata whose beads are lined up axially one 
under the other. 

Superfamily RISSOACEA 

Family RISSOIDAE 

Genus Cingula Fleming 1828 

