are welded together to form a single rib. In cross-section, this would give 
the rib the shape of the letter M. Hinge-line straight with one ear slightly 
shorter than the other. Color dull-gray with indistinct blotches of dullpink. Uncommonly dredged off Miama and the Lower Keys. 

Aequipecten Uneolaris Lamarck Wavy-lined Scallop 

Florida Keys to the Lesser Antilles. 

1 to 2 inches in size, ears about equal. Valves moderately inflated. Surface highly glossy, the colored valve with about 18 very low, rounded ribs. 
Bottom valve white. Top valve rosy-tan with characteristic, numerous small, 
wavy, thin lines of pink-brown running concentrically. A few brown mottlings may be present. A very gorgeous and rare species dredged from 7 
to 50 fathoms. A. may aguezensis Dall and Simpson is this species. 

Aequipecten muscosus Wood Rough Scallop 

Plate 34d, e 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

% to I ^ inches in size, both valves inflated and fairly deep. Hinge-ears 
equal to the width of the main part of the shell. 18 to 20 ribs, the center 
part of each bearing prominent, erect, concave scales, and on each side 2 
rows of much smaller scales. Color orange-brown, red, lemon-yellow, 
orange, or commonly mottled with purple. Beach-worn specimens may 
lose most of their scaliness. Moderately common just offshore to 90 fathoms. 
Formerly called exasperatus Sby. and fusco-purpureus Conrad. 

Subgenus Flagiocteniuin Dall 1898 
Aequipecten irradians Lamarck Atlantic Bay Scallop 

Plate 33! 

Nova Scotia to northern half of Florida and Texas. 

2 to 3 inches in size. This is the common edible scallop of our east 



368 American Seashells 

coast. It is not a very colorful species, although its drab browns and grays 
are rarely enhvened with yellow. There are 3 distinct subspecies which 
previously have been little understood. Each has a distinct geographical 
range and peculiar habitat. 

A. irradians irradians Lamarck. Nova Scotia to Long Island, N.Y. 17 to 
18 ribs which are low and roundish in cross-section. Each valve is about 
the same fatness, and the lower one is only slightly lighter in color. Drab 
gray-brown with indistinct, darker-brown mottlings. The most compressed 
of the 3 subspecies. This is borealis Say. 

A. irradians concentricus Say. New Jersey (rare), Virginia to Georgia 
and Louisiana to Tampa, Florida. 1 9 to 21 ribs which are squarish in crosssection. Lower valve (the lightest in color and commonly all white) is 
much fatter than the dull bluish gray to brown upper valve. Common. 

A. irradians ajnplico status Dall (fig. i6i). Central Texas to Mexico 
and Colombia. Similar to concentricus, but with only 12 to 17 ribs; more 
gibbose; lower valve commonly white and with high, squarish to slightly 
rounded ribs. Common in Texas. 

