
Pseudochama grajiti Strong (Grant's Chama), dredged off central California and Catalina Island, is about i inch in size, with prickly spines on the 
underside of the attached, cup-formed valve. One end of the valve is tinted 
with rose inside and out. Not common. 



394 American Seashells 

Genus Echinochama P. Fischer 1887 
Echinochmna cornuta Conrad Florida Spiny Jewel Box 

Plate 37g 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida to Texas. 

I to I % inches in length, quadrate in outHne and rather obese and heavy. 
Lunule distinct and broadly heart-shaped. With 7 to 9 rows of moderately 
long, stoutish spines, between which the shell is grossly pitted. Exterior 
creamy-white; interior white or flushed with bright pinkish mauve. Attached 
to a small pebble or broken shell by the right valve. Common from 3 to 
40 fathoms, and commonly washed ashore. 

Echinochama arcinella Linne (True Spiny Jewel Box, pi. 37h) from the 
West Indies to Brazil has 16 to 35 (commonly 20) radial rows of slender 
spines. The shell is not as obese nor as heavy as cornuta. The subspecies 
calif orjiica Dall (pi. 37e) is very similar, with slightly longer spines and with 
a more compressed shell. It ranges from the Gulf of CaHfornia to Panama 
in offshore water. 

Superfamily LEPTONACEA 
Family LEPTONIDAE 

A group of small, fragile, inflated, translucent clams which are parasitic 
or commensal on other marine creatures or are active crawlers like the gastropods. Most species brood their young inside the mantle cavity. The family 
is also named Erycinidae and Kelliidae. 

Genus Kellia Turton 1822 

Shell unsculptured, inflated and oval-oblong. Lateral teeth present. 
2 cardinal teeth in the right valve. 

Kellia laperousi Deshayes La Perouse's Lepton 

Alaska to Panama. 

% to I inch in length, oval-oblong, rather obese and with small beaks 
near the center. Shell fairly strong, chalk-white, but commonly covered 
with a smooth, glossy, greenish to yellowish-brown periostracum which, 
however, is commonly worn away in the beak area. Very common. Found 
attached to wharf pilings among mussels and chama shells. 

Genus Lasaea Brown 1827 
Shell very small, beaks nearer one end. Teeth the same as in Kellia. 



LEPTONIDAE 395 

Lasaea cistula Keen Little Box Lepton 
