Genus Argobiiccinwn Bruguiere 1792 

Subgenus Fusitriton Cossmann 1903 

Argobuccinu?/! oregoveiisc Redfield Oregon Triton 

Plate 24g 

Bering Sea to San Diego, California. 

4 to 5 inches in length, about 6 whorls. Characterized by its fusiform 
shape, convex whorls, which each bear 16 to 18 axial ribs nodulated by the 
crossing of smaller spiral pairs of threads. The epidermis is heavy, spiculose, 
bristle-like and gray-brown. Aperture and siphonal canal interiors are 



CYMATIIDAE 195 

enamel-white. Enamel, single tooth on parietal wall near the top of the aperture. Operculum chitinous, thick, brown. A common offshore species in 
its northern range. 

Genus Cymatium Roding 1798 
Subgenus Cymatiufn s. str. 

Cymatium femorale Linne Angular Triton 

Plate 5d 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

3 to 7 inches in length, with 2 or 3 former varices; outer lip flaring, 
thickened into a noduled varLx which is drawn up to a point posteriorly. 
Columella with i small fold and above it sometimes several much smaller 
ones. Color varies from brownish to reddish orange. Not uncommon in the 
West Indies in shallow water among eel-grass. 

Subgenus La?npusia Schumacher 1817 
Cymatium martinianum Orbigny Atlantic Hairy Triton 

Plate 9I 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

1% to 3 inches in length; old varices strong, beaded, and spaced % of 
a whorl apart. Spiral sculpture of a dozen or so squarish, irregularly sized, 
weakly beaded cords. Aperture orange-brown with the parietal area darkbrown between the white teeth. Periostracum very thick, matted, lightbrown. The embryonic shell is about 4 mm. in length, glossy-brown, with 
a flaring lip which has a small stromboid notch. Dissentoma prima Pilsbry 
1 945 is this species. C. velei Calkins is also a synonym. C. aquatile Reeve and 
C. pileare Linne are names applied to Indo-Pacific forms, and not this species. 
Common in shallow water. 

Do not confuse with C. chlorostomum which has just inside its outer lip 
a series of single, rather large, whitish teeth, instead of smaller, paired, 
yellowish brown teeth. 

Cymatium gracile Reeve Dwarf Hairy Triton 

Plate 2511 

