
Plate 22s 
Virginia to Florida and the Gulf States. The West Indies. 

I to 2 inches in maximum diameter, but very flat, with very large white 
aperture and strongly curved columella. Numerous fine spiral lines on top of 
whorls. Color dull-white with a light-brown, thin periostracum. Animal 
envelops the shell. Commonly found in shallow, sandy areas, especially in 
the Carolinas and the west coast of Florida. 



Sinum maculatum Say Maculated Baby's Ear 

Carolinas and west coast of Florida. 

Similar to perspectivum, but shell not so flat, with weaker spiral sculpture, and colored dull-brown or with yellowish brown maculations. 

Sinum scopulosum Conrad Western Baby's Ear 

Monterey to Todos Santos Bay, Lower California. 

I to 1/4 inches in length, 4 whorls, the early ones being very smooth, 
the last whorl very large. Numerous spiral grooves can be seen with the 
naked eye. Shell chalky-white, but usually covered with a thin, yellowish, 
translucent periostracum. The spire is more elevated and the whorls more 
inflated than those in S. debile Gould, from Catalina Island to the Gulf of 
California. S. scopulosum is moderately common, and is the same as S. californicum Oldroyd. 



NATICIDAE 191 

Subjainily NATICINAE 

Genus Natica Scopoli 1777 

Subgenus Naticarius Dumeril 1806 

Natica canrena Linne Colorful Atlantic Natica 

Plate 5I 

North Carolina to Key West and the West Indies. 

I to 2 inches in length, glossy-smooth, except for weak wrinkles near 
the suture. Color pattern variable; sometimes with axial, wavy, brown lines 
and with 4 spiral rows of arrow-shaped or squarish brown spots. Umbilicus 
and its large round, internal callus white. Exterior of hard operculum with 
about 10 spiral grooves. Uncommon in eastern Florida; common in the West 
Indies. 

Natica livida Pfeiffer Livid Natica 

Plate 22-0 
Southeast Florida, Caribbean and Bermuda. 

% inch in length, glossy-smooth, exterior lead-gray with vague, spiral, 
darker-gray bands. Aperture and columella brown; callus which almost fills 
the umbilicus characteristically dark to light chocolate-brown. Moderately 
