Shell smooth except for microscopic, spiral scratches. Color light-tan to 
brown with the spire tinted with purplish rose. Often confused with Litiopa 
which has a blade-like ridge on the columella just inside the aperture. Common from low water to 25 fathoms. Alias L. divaricata Fab. and solidula 
Loven. 

Lacuna unifasciata Carpenter One-banded Lacuna 

Figure 36b 

Monterey, California, to Lower California. 

^ inch in length, moderately fragile, similar to the other Lacunas, but 
characterized by its very narrow, long, chink-like umbilicus and by the 
carinate periphery of the whorl which bears a fine, dark-brown spiral line. 
Early whorls usually pinkish, remainder yellowish tan. Umbilicus and columella white. The peripheral carina may be weak or obsolete, and the color 
line may consist of a series of faint, slanting streaks of light reddish brown. 
Very common in littoral seaweed and kelp in southern California. 

Lacuna carinata Gould Carinate Lacuna 

Figure 36a 
Alaska to Monterey, California. 

% to ^ inch in length, 3 to 4 whorls, moderately fragile. Aperture 
semi-lunar, large. Outer lip thin. Columellar chink large, long and white. 
Shell smooth, chalky-white, but always covered by a thin, yellowish brown, 
smooth periostracum. Common on kelp weed. L. porrecta Cpr. and striata 
Gabb are the same. Do not confuse with vincta which has a higher spire and 
much narrower, brownish-tan umbilical chink. 

Lacuna variegata Carpenter Variegated Lacuna 

Puget Sound, Washington, to Santa Monica, California. 

M inch in length, similar to unifasciata, but having a very deep umbilical 
chink which is bordered by a sharp ridge. The spiral carina at the level of 
the suture is very small, but quite sharp. The yellowish tan shell has mottlings or oblique bands of darker color. Moderately common in eel-grass 
along the shore. 

Fcrmily LITTORINIDAE 
Genus Haloconcha Dall 1886 

Haloconcha reftexa Dall Reflexed Haloconch 

Alaska and the Bering Sea. 

% inch in length, fragile, 3 whorls; body whorl large. Resembles a Velutina.
132 American Seashells

 Early whorls purplish brown, last whorl translucent, light chestnutbrown. Shell covered by a thin varnish of periostracum of the same color. 
At the edge of the thin, smooth outer lip, the periostracum is neatly curled 
back to form a minute ridge. Umbilicus slit-like, with the periostracum 
puckered along its length. Operculum littorinid, and is withdrawn well 
within the glossy-brown aperture. Not uncommon in shallow water. 

Genus Littorina Ferussac 1821 
Littorina littorea Linne Common Periwinkle 

Plate 19b 

