of valuable locality data. If each specimen bears the same number as the 
label and catalog entry, it can be returned to its proper tray in case of accidental spilling. A thick ledger about 1 2" X 8" may be purchased at a secondhand office equipment store at small expense. Headings may be arranged 
across both pages as shown in our figure. More space should be given "Locality" than any other section. Run your catalog numbers from i on up. Do 
not experiment with mystical letters indicating the locality, collector or date 
of cataloging, since all this information will be on your label and in your 
catalog. A card catalog arranged systematically is useless, time-consuming 
and a duplication of the information already available from your collection. 

Specimens should be numbered in India ink with a fine pen. Shells that 
are too small to number may be put in vials or covered boxes, but do not fail 
to add a small slip bearing the catalog number. 

The housing of molluscan animals, octopus and other soft-bodied creatures which must be preserved in seventy percent grain alcohol is expensive 
and generally beyond the scope of the average private collector. It may be 
mentioned, however, that preserving jars with rubber rings and clip-on glass 
lids are the best. Vials with necks may be plugged tightly with cotton and 
set upside down in the jars. 

The mollusk collection should be arranged systematically, that is, in 
biological sequence, with the first drawer containing the primitive abalones, 
followed by the limpets and on up to the specialized bubble shells {Bulla). 
The small chiton, cephalopod and scaphopod classes mav be put at the beginning of the gastropods or between them and the bivalves. You may wish to 
place your unsorted or unidentified material in the last few drawers. Once 
you have a species represented in your collection, do not stop there. Add 
other lots from other collecting regions. You will then learn to appreciate 
individual, ecological and geographical variations. 

Exchanging. An amazing amount of traffic of duplicate material exists 
throughout the country and in many parts of the world today. Exchanging 
is an ideal way of sharing your local rich hauls and of obtaining species beyond your collecting sphere. A list of the many hundreds interested in 
exchanging is published in several directories of conchologists and naturalists. 
Sound out your prospective exchanger to learn what species or type of material he desires, since some advanced collectors are extremely "choosy." Always give accurate locality data and send as perfect specimens as you can. 
Some people make up elaborate exchange lists which they send around to 



Collectifig American Seashells 61 

other collectors. Exchanging, although worthwhile, is time-consuming, and 
great care must be taken that the upkeep of your main collection does not 
suffer. 

Excellent specimens with largely reliable locality data may be obtained 
from a number of dealers. Their prices are often high, but this is justified, 
at least with regard to locally dredged material, by the high cost of operating 
boats and replacing dredges. Like antiques and costume jewelry, the prices 
of shells vary with what people will pay. 

Shipping. When sending shells on exchange or to some other collector 
for identification, always include a fully inscribed label with each lot. Most 
shells are best protected by loose wrapping in old newspaper. Small or fragile 
shells should be boxed with cotton. Mail or express shipments up to twenty 
pounds will travel safely in cardboard cartons obtained from the grocery 
store. The top and bottom should be padded with two inches of crumpled 
newspaper. Small lots are conveniently sent in mailing tubes. It is inadvisable 
to send living snails through the mails, and foreign imports of living land and 
fresh-water mollusks are prohibited by law except by prior permission from 
The Surgeon General, U.S. Public Health Service or from The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington 25, D.C. 

Identification services. Besides popular books and a few professional 
