rib crossed by concentric ribs. N. penderi Dall and Bartsch is twice as fat, 
with a very ovate lunule and is more rounded at the ventral margin. Hanley 
in i860 first reported this species from "Gulf of Nicoya, Costa Rica." This 
is probably "N. redondoensis''"' "Burch" \\'oodring 1951. It is dredged commonly off the West Coast from 1 5 to 600 fathoms. 

Subgenus Thestyleda Iredale 1929 
Nuculana hamata Carpenter Hamate Nut Clam 

Figure z6A 

Puget Sound to Panama City, California. 

Under % inch in length, moderately compressed, exterior with strong 
concentric ribs; characterized by the squarely truncated posterior end of the 
long rostrum. Fairly commonly dredged off Calif ornian shores from 20 to 
200 fathoms. 



340 American Seashells 

Genus Yoldia MoUer 1842 

Somewhat similar to Nuculana, but the valves are much thinner and 
fragile, rarely with a long rostrum, usually gaping at both ends, much 
smoother and glistening. 

Subgenus Yoldia s. str. 
Yoldia limatula Say File Yoldia 

Figure 71b 

Maine to Cape May, New Jersey. Northern Alaska. 

I to 2 ^ inches in length, elongate, narrowing at the posterior end. Umbones very small, halfway between the ends of the shell. Exterior glistening 
greenish tan to light chestnut-brown, with only faint concentric growth 
lines. Interior glossy white. A rather common species just below low-water 
mark. Distinguished from Y. sapotilla by its more elongate shape. It is present in northern Alaska, but it is replaced to the south by the following subspecies. 

Yoldia limatida gardneri Oldroyd Gardner's Yoldia 

Southern Alaska to off San Diego, California. 

Very similar to the true Innatida, but always having the anterior ventral 
margin with a small concave depression. In general shape it falls within the 
variations of the Atlantic specimens. Moderately common. 

Yoldia sapotilla Gould Short Yoldia 

Plate 27b 

Arctic Seas to North Carolina. 

% to 1% inches in length, oblong, smooth, with a moderately extended 
posterior end. Periostracum yellowish to greenish brown. Differing from 
limatula in being shorter and less extended and more truncate at the posterior end. Commonly dredged off New England in shallow water; often 
found in fish stomachs. This species can be confused with the uncommon 
Y. myalis Couthouy (pi. 2 yd) which is found from Labrador to Cape Cod 
and Alaska and which, however, is shorter and more pointed at the posterior 
end. 
