Monterey, California, to Lower California. 

^ inch in length, solid, glossy; characterized by numerous, fine, spiral 
cords which are sometimes weakly beaded, and by a wide, rather flattish periphery. Nucleus tan. Color light yellowish brown, commonly with a spiral 
row of subdued white spots at the lower periphery. Interior brightly nacreous. Moderately common on rocks at low tide. 

CalUost07na a7272ulatU77t Solander Ringed Top-shell 

Figure 33f 

Alaska to San Diego, California. 

I to 1/4 inch in length, not quite so wide; characterized by its light 
weight, golden-yellow color with a mauve band at the periphery, and by the 
numerous, spiral rows of tiny, distinct beads (5 to 9 rows in the spire whorls). 
Nucleus pink. Dredged offshore and occasionally washed ashore. Formerly 
C. annulatum Martyn. 

Calliosto77m canaliculatinn Solander 1786 Channeled Top-shell 

Plate 3q; figure 33!! 

Alaska to San Diego, California. 

I to 1% inches in length, not heavy, sides of whorl flat. Periphery of 
the last whorl sharp. Base of shell almost flat. Characterized by sharp, prominant, slightly beaded, spiral cords. Color yellowish tan. Nuclear whorls 
white. Moderately common off^shore. Found on floating kelp weed. Formerly known as C. canalicukumt Martyn, and doliarhmi Holten 1802. 



116 American Se ash ells 

Calliostoma variegatum Carpenter Variable Top-shell 

Figure 33b 
Alaska to southern California. 

I inch in length, similar to doliarium, but with smaller cords which are 
strongly beaded; nucleus pink; the sides of the spire slightly concave, and 
the periphery of the last whorl rounded. Uncommonly dredged in 15 to 
400 fathoms. 

Calliostoma gloriosmn Dall Glorious Top-shell 

Figure 33a 

San Francisco to San Diego, California. 

I inch in length, not quite so wide, rather light, with about i o fine, spiral 
threads between sutures. The upper 5 are inclined to be minutely beaded. 
Periphery of last whorl moderately sharp. Columella white, fairly thick and 
with a swelling at the lower %. Nuclear whorls white. Color of shell yellowish brown with darker purplish brown, slanting and rather elongate spots 
arranged in 2 spiral series. Moderately common in shallow water. 

Calliostoma splendens Carpenter Splendid Top-shell 

Figure 33c 

Monterey to Lower California. 

