Collectors of fancy seashells are constantly in search of specimens of 
outstanding qualities, and although a number of species are well-known for 
their high value or unusual beauty, the standards by which we judge their 
rarity and attractiveness are considerably varied. The differences in our 
appreciation of beauty are natural enough, for the colors, forms and textures 
of seashells are numerous enough to offer appeal to almost any type of aesthetic 
appreciation. The man who covets a brilliantly patterned Olive shell of rich 
golden-red colors may see little in a tiny white shell which another collector 
treasures for its intricate snow-flake sculpturings. 

For many conchologists rarity is gauged by the top price that a specimen 
may bring; for others the important judging point is the scarcity of the species in nature or perhaps the rarity of specimens in collections. Left-handed, 
double-mouthed or distorted specimens, like misprints in stamps, are highly 
valued by many veteran collectors. There are literally hundreds of truly rare 
species, but most of these are deep-sea shells, some of which are known only 
from a single specimen. Most of these are small and not particularly attractive. The high-priced shells are found among the showy genera, like the 
cones, Pleurotomaria slit-shells, volutes, murex shells, scallops and cowries. 
The Golden Cowrie is the most popular among the so-called rarities, the 
present-day price ranging from $20 to $60. Some species may be considered 
rarities for years and command very high prices, until they are collected in 
large quantities. The Goliath Conch (Stromhus goliath) is worth about 
$200 today, but collecting in northern Brazil would undoubedly bring them 
to light in great quantities and hence would lower the price to a few dollars. 
The Precious Wentletrap Shell {Epitonium seal are or pretiosum) of the 
western Pacific was in such demand years ago that Chinese found it profitable to make counterfeits out of rice paste. The species is now considered 
reasonably common and is low-priced, but genuine rice counterfeits are now 
rare and equal in value to the price of the first-known shell specimens. 

Some of the most interesting threads of man's early history have been 
woven around the trade routes of primitive peoples and their dispersal of 
shells. The discovery by archaeologists in 1895 of the Red Helmet Shell 



Man and Molhisks 7 

(Cypraecassis rufa) in a grave of the prehistoric Cro-Magnon man in the 
caves of France was of considerable importance in tracing former trade 
routes. This species is found only in the Indian and Pacific oceans. Its presence substantiated other archaeological evidence that extensive trade routes 
for great distances existed among early European man. The Tiger Cowrie 
{Cypraea tigris), another Indo-Pacific species, has been found in a prehistoric 
pit-dwelling at St. Mary Bourne at Hants, England, and the Panther Cowrie 
(Cypraea pantherina) , a Red Sea species, has been found in Saxon women's 
graves, excavated in several localities in Kent, England. 

The seashell with perhaps the widest dispersal by the ancients and 
modern man is the small, yellow Money Cowrie {Cypraea moneta) which 
was for many centuries the accepted currency in many parts of the world. 
Although its natural biological distribution is hmited to the vast areas of the 
Indian Ocean, the East Indies and the islands of the tropical Pacific, its use 
as currency or for ornamentation has been almost worldwide. The three 
most unusual records are those located in North America. 

When the aboriginal sites along the Tennessee River were being investigated at the beginning of this century, five Pacific Money Cowries were unearthed from one of the graves of the Roden Mounds in Alabama. Evidence 
points to the fact that these burials had been made before the mound makers 
had any intercourse with white man. The shells were sent to the United 
States National Museum by their discoverer, and Dr. William H. Dall wrote 
the following interesting reply: — 

I should incline to the belief that the cowries were imported in or 
