
% to I inch in length, very fragile, and with a delicate, shiny, brown 
periostracum covering the entire shell and extending beyond the edges. Light 
radial bands of yellowish brown are present in some specimens. Chondrophore supported by 2 curved arms. Commonly dredged in shallow water in 
mud bottom. Compare Florida specimens with occidentalis. 

Solemya bore alls Totten Boreal Awning Clam 

Nova Scotia to Connecticut. 

2 to 3 inches in length, very similar to velum, but more compressed, 
heavier, and colored grayish blue or lead on the inside of the valves (instead 
of purplish white). The striking difference is in the siphonal opening of the 
animal. In velum, there are 2 small, median, low tubercles above the opening 
and 5 or 6 pairs of short tentacles at the lower end of the opening. In borealis, there are 3 pairs (one of which is large and long) of tentacles above 
the opening and about 1 5 smaller ones bordering the lower half. S. borealis 
is moderately common offshore. 

Solemya occidentalis Deshayes West Indian Awning Clam 

West coast of Florida and the West Indies. 

^ inch in length, similar to S. velum, but much smaller, and has only 
one slender ridge or rib bordering the chondrophore. Uncommon just offshore. Described first by Deshayes in 1857, later by Fischer in 1858. 

Solemya valvidus Carpenter Pacific Awning Clam 

San Pedro, California, to the Gulf of California. 



3 34 America}! Seashells 

% inch in length, thin, translucent. Periostracum shiny, light-brown, 
with slender, radial lines of darker brown which are finely striate posteriorly. 
Ligament bounded by a single, arched prop or rib. Uncommonly dredged 
offshore. 

Order PROTOBRANCHIA 
Suborder NUCULACEA 

Key to Families 
a. Chondrophore below hinge present: 

b. External ligament absent; shell ovate Nuculidae. 

bb. External ligament present; shell elongate .... Nuculanidae. 

aa. Chondrophore absent; shell ovate Malletiidae. 

Family NUCULIDAE 
Genus Nucula Lamarck 1799 

Shell ovate, usually less than Yz inch in size; interior pearly; ventral margins usually with fine denticulations. 




'"mxmw^" 

