whorls. Thus we often speak of spirally arranged color bands (as in the 
Tulip Shell, Fasciolaria hunteria, pi. 13c), or axially arranged color streaks 
(as in the Lightning Whelk, Busy con coiitrarium, pi. 23-0). 

The umbilicus is a hole or chink in the shell next to the base of the 
columella, which is formed because the whorls are not closely wound against 
each other at their anterior or basal end. The umbilicus may be quite large 
and deep as in the sundial shells, Architectonica (pi. 4m). Commonly there 
is a spiral cord in the umbilicus which may terminate in a button-like callus. 
Some species are differentiated by the size, position or color of this znnhilical 
callus (see Polijiices duplicatus, pi. 5k). About a fourth of our marine species are umbilicated to some degree or another. 

Teeth (not to be confused with the radular teeth in the animal's proboscis or mouth cavity) arc often present in the aperture. The Distorted 
Shell, Distorsio (pi. 25Z), is an extreme example, but some shells have teeth 
on the parietal wall only (Nerita) or on the inside of the outer lip (Cassis). 



Hoiv to Know American Seas hells 



77 



Tlie periostracu7n is a horny covering which overlays the exterior of 
the shell in many species and, like the shell, is secreted and shaped by the 
fleshy mantle of the animal. The periostracum (erroneously called the epidermis) may be very thin and transparent or only slightly tinted (as in some 
volutes, moon shells and the smaller conchs); or it may be like a thick coating of shellac which flakes off when dry (as in the Queen Conch, Strombus 
gigas). In a few buccinids, some frog shells {Lampusia) and the vase shells 
( Vasimi) , the periostracum may be very thick and often have clumps which 
simulate hairs and bristles. It is wholly absent in many groups, including the 
cowries, olives and marginellas. It is primarily a protective coating and prevents damage from boring sponges and water acids. 

When axial and spiral sculpturing are equally prominent and cross each 
other at right angles, a cancellate or decussate sculpture is produced. Reticulate sculpture is similar, but the lines do not cross at right angles. 

Growth lines are mentioned in many of our descriptions and these refer 
to the axial lines which run parallel to the edge of the apertural lip. These 
are irregularities in the shell, usually very small but sometimes coarse, which 
mark places where growth of the shell was stopped for a relatively long time. 
Sometimes the lip of the aperture becomes stained or slightly thickened during these brief rest periods (probably a few days apart), and, when additional growth takes place, these blemishes are left as growth lines. 




Figure 24. Various types of opercula. a, calcareous {Turbo); b, under surtace of 
same showing the paucispiral, corneous laver to which the foot muscle is attached; 
c, calcareous and paucispiral (Neritu); d, paucispiral and corneous {Littorina)\ e, 
ungulate and corneous {Busy con and Vasmn); f, multispiral and corneous 
(Livo?7a); g, concentric and corneous {Biiccinwn). 

The operczilimt is a homy or calcareous plate firmly attached to the 
dorsal side of the posterior end of the foot. When the head and foot are 
withdrawn into the shell, this "trapdoor" is the last part to be pulled in, and 
it thus serves as a protection against enemies and, in many species, seals the 
shell from either noxious fluids or the drying effects of the sun and air. When 
the foot is extended and used in crawling, the operculum serves as a foot-pad 
on which the heavy shell may rest and rub without injury to the soft foot. 
