one below the other and by the dehcate lavender aperture. Rare in moderately shallow water. The posterior siphonal canal is prominent and not 
attached to the body whorl. 



198 American Seashells 

Subgenus Tutufa Jousseaume 1881 
Bursa tenuisculpta Dautz. and Fischer Fine-sculptured Frog-shell 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 3 inches in length; with 5 to 7 spiral rows of numerous, evenly 
sized beads. Old varices spaced % of a whorl apart so that the varices do 
not line up under each other. Color dull ash-gray. Dredged on rare occasions. 

Subgenus Colubrellina Fischer 1884 

Bursa corrugata Perry Gaudy Frog-shell 

Plate 9k 

Southeast Florida and the Caribbean. Lower California to Ecuador. 

2 to 3 inches in length; flattened laterally; with 2 prominent, knobbed 
varices on each whorl. Just in front of each varix there is a sharp frill. There 
are generally i or 2 rows of blunt nodules on the whorls. This is a rare species 
in the Atlantic, but more frequently encountered on the west coast of Central America. Alias caelata Broderip, ponder osa Reeve and louisa M. Smith. 

Bursa gra?2ularis Roding Granular Frog-shell 

Plate 25-0 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% to 2 inches in length, flattened laterally. Varices axially placed one 
below the other. Color orange-brown with 3 narrow, white bands which 
appear as prominent white squares on the varices. Spiral sculpture of several 
rows of small beads, those on the periphery of the whorl having the largest 
beads. Teeth in aperture white. Uncommon. Alias cubajiiana Orbigny and 
affinis Broderip. 

Subgenus Bujonaria Schumacher 18 17 
Bursa spadicea Montfort Chestnut Frog-shell 

Plate 2 5P 

Southeast Florida and the Caribbean. 

I to 2 inches in length, flattened laterally; with strong, rounded varices, 
2 on each whorl and lined up axially one under the other. Surface covered 
with spiral rows of numerous, small beads. Posterior siphon has one wall 
next to the body whorl. Color yellowish with diff^used markings of orangebrown. Rare. Dredged off Florida in moderately deep water. Alias B. crassa 
Dillwyn. 



TONNIDAE 199 

Subgenus Crossata Jousseaume 1881 
