Plate 31m, n 

Aleutian Islands to Lower California. 

1 /4 to 2 inches in length, subovate, beaks nearer the anterior end; sculpture of concentric and radial ribs which form beads as they cross each other 
at the anterior end of the shell. Radial ribs strongrer on the middle of the 
valves. Beaks almost smooth. Exterior rusty-brown with a purplish cast. A 
very abundant, wide-spread species with a number of varieties. Sometimes 
with a mottled color pattern. 

Variety or form: laciniata Carpenter reaches 3 inches in length, is 
coarsely cancellatc and beaded, its color rusty-brown to grayish. 

Variety or form: ruderata Deshayes (typically a northern form) is 
chalky-white to gray, with concentric ribs large and coarse, commonly 
lamellate (see pi. 31-0). 

Compare with Tapes philippinarwn, the Japanese Littleneck. 

Genus Humilaria Grant and Gale 1931 
11nillilaria kcnnerleyi Reeve Kennerley's Venus 

Alaska to Carmel Bay, California. 

2 M: to 4 inches in length, ovate-oblong, with the beaks near the anterior 
end. With sharp, concentric ribs whose edges are bent upwards. Spaces 
between ribs. Color and texture like gray Portland cement. Interior white. 
Margin of shell finely crenulate, a feature that will distinguish it from worn 
specimens of Saxidomus. Dredged on mud bottoms from 3 to 20 fathoms. 
A collector's item, although reasonably common. 

Genus Tapes Aiiihlfeld 181 1 
Subgenus Rudhapes Chiamenti 1900 
Tapes philippinarwn Adams and Reeve Japanese Littleneck 

Puijct Sound southward. 



VENERIDAE 



411 



1% to 2 inches in length, extremely close to Protothaca sta?mnea and 
grata Sowerby (the latter's range is from the Gulf of California to Panama), 
but differing from both in being much more elongate and more compressed. 
Its lunule and small escutcheon are more distinct and quite smooth as compared to those of stavnnea. The hinges are extremely similar. P. grata differs 
in having tiny, distinct crenulations on the inside of the anterior dorsal 
margin. T. seviideciissata Reeve appears to be the same as this introduced 
species. Its colors are variable and commonly variegated. Alias T. bifurcata 
Quayle 1938. 



Genus Compsomyax R. Stewart 1930 
Co7npso7nyax subdiaphana Carpenter 
