the Murex shells, produce long, delicate spines. There are few objects in 
nature that can vie in beauty with the glistening sheen found in the shells of 
the ohves and cowries. On the other hand, the beautiful sea slugs or nudibranchs may entirely lack a shell. The Carrier Shell, Xenophora, has acquired the strange habit of collecting shells, bits of coral and other hard 
objects, and cementing them to its own shell. 

WHERE THEY LIVE 

From the high levels of the coastal cliffs to the canyons of the ocean's 
bottom, a thousand kinds of habitats have been adopted by marine !!!gastro16 



Life of the Snails 17 

pods. A few species of nerites and periwinkles are known to ascend trees 
near the seashore, although tree-dwelling is best known among certain tropical land snails. In the tropics, the Tectarius prickly-winkles habitually live 
in or near splash pools along the rocky coast where spray from the waves and 
drenching rains are constantly changing the temperature and salinity. When 
the pools are dry the snails are often able to withstand weeks of hot sun 
and parched conditions. 

Three kinds of snails in American waters are forever destined to wander 
at large on the surface of the open ocean. The purple Janthina snails are 
born, live and, in most instances, die at sea. These pelagic snails live upside 
down and remain at the surface by means of a small raft of bubbles. Small 
bubbles of air are entrapped in a special mucus secreted by the animal. This 
clear fluid congeals upon contact with salt water and air, and it adheres to 
the foot. The entire float has much the appearance of crumpled cellophane. 
The female attaches her small eggs to the underside of the float where they 
are partially shaded from the sun's rays. The Janthinas live off the coasts of 
our southern states, and during certain seasons they are commonly cast ashore 
in California, Florida and the Gulf States. Specimens have been blown off 
their Gulf Stream course and been washed ashore in New England and even 
the British Isles. 

As is the case with so many other pelagic creatures, the shell surface of 
Janthina which faces downward (the spire of this upside down shell) is 
colored a light, milky blue. This is probably a protective coloration which 
blends with that of the surface of the sea, which to an underwater observer 
is similarly colored. For some unknown reason Janthinas are completely 
blind. 

Two other groups of gastropods live at the surface of the ocean and, 
like Jantlmia, live an upside down existence. These are the tiny brown 
Litiopa snails which adhere to floating sargassum seaweed by means of a 
silken thread of mucus, and the heteropods or fin-footed sea snails which 
remain afloat by paddling a wide, fin-shaped foot. The latter group includes 
the rare and highly prized Carinaria, the Atlanta shells and the shell-less 
Firoloida. 

Not all pelagic mollusks live solely at the surface. The transparent, 
delicate-shelled sea butterflies or pteropods (pronounced tero-pods) remain 
several fathoms below the surface during the daylight hours but move upward toward the surface at night. In many equatorial areas pteropods exist 
in great numbers, and the steady rain of the sinking shells of the dead mollusks litter the ocean's bottom many feet deep. Among the sea slugs, one 
species of nudibranch (Scyllaea) is always pelagic, while the small and beautiful Bat Sea Slug, Gastropteron rubrum, makes nocturnal trips from the 
bottom of the shallow bay to the surface. The two pancake-shaped lobes of 



18 
