
Family MAGILIDAE 
Genus Coralliophila H. and A. Adams 1853 

CoralUophila abbreviata Lamarck Short Coral-shell 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 



220 American Seashells 

% to i^ inches in length, soHd, grayish white, rather misshapen, with 
rounded or squared shoulders, and with or without weak, rounded axial 
ridges. Spiral sculpture of crowded, variously sized spiral cords which are 
made up of numerous microscopic scales. Aperture enamel-white, rounded 
above and constricted into a short siphonal canal below. Umbilicus small, 
shallow and funnel-shaped. A common species found living in the bases of 
seafans. C. deburghiae Reeve is a deep-water form or species with long, triangular ribs projecting straight out from the periphery of the whorl. It is 
uncommon. 

Subgenus Latiaxis Swainson 1840 
Coralliophila costata Blainville California Latiaxis 

Point Conception, Cahfornia, to Panama. 

I to I % inches in length, variable in shape and the development of frills 
and spines. Deep-water forms (called hindsi Carpenter) bear triangular, flattened, up-turned spines on the periphery of the whorl. Spiral cords are 
strongly scaled. Color light-gray with an enamel-white aperture. Moderately common offshore. A choice collector's item. 

Superfamily BUCCINACEA 
Family COLUMBELLIDAE 

(Pyrenidae) 
Genus Colmnbella Lamarck 1799 

Columbella 7nercatoria Linne Common Dove-shell 

Plate 25bb 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% to % inch in length, solid, squat, highly colored with white and 
brown, interrupted spiral bars over yellow, pink or orange background. 
Sometimes only maculated with one color (orange, brown or yellow). Outer 
lip thick, bearing about a dozen white teeth. A common shallow-water species frequently cast up on beaches. Not found on the west coast of Florida. 

Colwnbella rusticoides Heilprin Rusty Dove-shell 

Key West north along the west coast of Florida. 

Similar to C. mercatoria, but much more slender, smooth on the center 
of the body whorl, and with mauve-brown marks between the apertural 
teeth. Also more faintly colored and lacking spiral bars or lines of brown. 
Common down to 20 feet. 



I 

