
Plate i8z 

Alaska to Lower California. 

/{> to % inch in maximum diameter, narrowly elliptical, with a high apex, 
and colored a uniform, greasy light-brown. Abundant on the stalks or holdfasts of the large seaweeds, such as Egregia. 

Acmaea pale ace a Gould Chaffy Limpet 

Vancouver, B.C., to Lower California. 

% inch in maximum diameter, very fragile, translucent-brown, 3 or 4 
times as long as wide. Sides straight with fine, raised radial threads. Abundant on the narrow-leaved eel-grass of the open coast. 

Atlantic Coast Species 
Acmaea testudinalis testudinalis Miiller Atlantic Plate Limpet 

Arctic Seas to Long Island Sound, New York. 

I to 1% inches in maximum diameter, oval in outline, moderately high 
with the apex nearly at the center of the shell. Smoothish except for a few 
coarse growth lines and numerous, very fine axial threads. Interior bluish 
white with a dark- to light-brown center and with short, radial brown bars 
at the edge. Exterior dull cream-gray with irregular axial bars and streaks of 
brown. A common littoral species in New England. Formerly referred to 
as A. tessulata Miiller. The fomi alveiis Conrad is a thin, elongate, heavily 
mottled ecological variant which lives on eel-grass. 



106 American Seashells 

Acmaea antillarum Sowerby Antillean Limpet 

Plate 17a 

South half of Florida and the West Indies. 

% to I inch in maximum diameter, usually very flat, rather thin, oval in 
outline but narrou^er at the anterior end. Neatly sculptured with numerous 
radial threads. Color variable: exterior whitish with a few or many narrow 
or wide radial rays of brownish green. Interior glossy whitish with a darkor light-brown callus. Borders or sometimes the entire inside marked by 
numerous radial lines of purple-brown. These are often divided near the 
edge of the shell. Uncommon in Florida, but abundant in the West Indies. 
A. candeana Orbigny and A. tenera C. B. Adams are the same. 

Acmaea pustulata Helbling Spotted Limpet 

Southeast Florida, the West Indies and Bermuda. 

I inch in maximum diameter, oval in outline, moderately flat with 
rounded sides. Shell thick, with coarse axial ribs which are crossed by fine 
concentric threads. Interior glossy-white, with the central callus yellowish. 
Exterior chalk-white, dull. Sometimes flecked with red-brown dots and bars. 
Common. Formerly known as punctulata Gmelin. A deep-water form, 
which is perhaps a young phase, of this species is very thin, light-rose in 
color, with a tiny, sharp apex and is occasionally flecked with red. It may be 
called A. pustulata pulcherrima Guilding. 

