sac and, together with the tiny, harpoon-like tooth, is ejected from the snail's proboscis and stabbed into the skin of the victim. 



Man and Mollusks 5 

Indo-Pacific are the cone shells {Conns), the sting of which is as powerful as 
the bite of a rattlesnake. Although the beautiful cone shells are among the 
commonest of Indo-Pacific mollusks, the total number of authentic cases of 
death from their sting is surprisingly small. No American species have been 
recorded as harmful to man but, because all cones possess the necessary 
apparatus, it would be wise to be careful in handling American specimens 
over two inches in size. 

The number of cone stings is few because of the shy nature of the animal. Invariably a snail will withdraw into its shell when disturbed and, unless 
the cone is held quietly in the palm of the hand for some minutes, there is 
little likelihood of the collector being stung. The apparatus for the injection 
of the venom into the skin of the victim is contained in the head of the 
animal. Bite, rather than sting, is perhaps more descriptive of the operation. 
The long, fleshy proboscis or snout is extended from the head and jabbed 
against the skin. Within this tube are a number of hard, hollow stingers, as 
long and slender as needles. These are actually modified radular teeth, commonly used in other snails to rasp their food. Under a high-powered lens the 
teeth of the cone shell resemble miniature harpoons. As the teeth are thrust 
into the skin, a highly toxic venom flows from a large poison gland located 
farther back in the head, out through the mouth, and into the wound through 
the hollow tube of the tooth. In some cases, death has taken place in four to 
five hours after the patient was stung. Not all cases are serious. Andrew 
Garrett, a famous shell collector of the latter half of the nineteenth century, 
reported that he was stung by a tulip cone that caused a "sharp pain not unlike the sting of a wasp." 

While in recent years the cone shells have received perhaps an undue 
amount of notoriety as dangerous creatures, they are best known as an aristocratic family of beautiful shells which have been favorites for years among 
the most discriminating of collectors. For hundreds of years the sound of the 
auctioneer's gavel has been heard at the sale of valuable collections of seashells, but no shell has created such fevered interest as the Glory-of-the-Seas 
cone. Its present-day value is in the neighborhood of $400 to $600. This 
species seems to possess the ideal combination of features which brings high 
prices — beauty, size, rarity and, above all, mystery or legend. Although the 
legends connected with the Glory-of-the-Seas are for the most part untrue, 
the mere mention of its name will invariably cause the blood pressure of shell 
collectors to rise. 

The first published reference to the Glory-of-the-Seas was in 1757. 
Today the whereabouts of each of the twenty-three specimens is known. 
The most famous finding was made by the renowned shell collector, Hugh 
Cuming, in 1838 when he found three specimens at low tide on the reefs at 
Jacna on Bohol Island in the Philippines. The myth has often been repeated 



6 American Seashells 

that Cuming returned for more only to find that the reef had sunk during an 
earthquake, and that since then no other specimens have been found. However, the species is apparently widespread throughout the East Indian region. 
Specimens have turned up since Cuming's day at Cebu in the Philippines, Amboina Island, and Piru Bay in the Dutch East Indies. A four-inch specimen 
was found on the shore at Wahaai, Ceram Island, after a storm in 1896. In 
addition to the existing twenty-three specimens, three were destroyed during 
World War II and eight, formerly known to exist, are missing. A search in 
grandmother's attic or along some East Indian beach will doubtless bring 
others to light. 

