
Florida Cerith 

Plate 1911 



I to 1V2 inches in length, elongate. Spire pointed, with 2 or 3 white, 
former varices on each whorl. Siphonal canal well-developed. With several 
spiral rows of 18 to 20 neat beads per whorl between which are fine, granulated spiral threads. Color whitish with mottlings and specklings of reddish 
brown. Distinguished from C. literatimi by its more elongate shape and 
neater, smaller, more numerous beads. Common in shallow water. 



154 American Seashells 

Cerithium muscarum Say Fly-specked Cerith 

Plate 19m 

South half of Florida and the West Indies. 

I inch in length, moderately elongate. Siphonal canal rather long and 
twisted to the left. 9 to 1 1 nodulated axial ribs on each whorl. Base of shell 
with a very strong spiral cord, often nodulated. Former varices rarely present. Apertural side of body whorl convex. Color slate- to brown-gray, 
usually with brown to reddish specks in spiral rows. Common in shallow, 
warm waters on the west coast of Florida. 

Cerithium literatiim Born Stocky Cerith 

Plate 19I 

Southeast Florida, Bermuda and the West Indies. 

I inch in length, half as wide; siphonal canal short. Aperture side of 
body whorl slightly flattened. Usually i weak, former varix present. With 
numerous coarse spiral threads, and with a spiral row of 9 to 12 sharp, prominent nodules just below the suture. Sometimes a second, smaller row of 
spines is on the periphery. Color whitish with spiral rows of many black 
or reddish squares. Common in shallow water on the Lower Florida Keys. 

Cerithium ebiirneum Bruguiere Ivory Cerith 

Plate i9q 

Southeast Florida, the Bahamas and Greater Antilles. 

% to I (rarely iK>) inches in length, variable in shape, but usually 
moderately elongate. Each whorl has 4 to 6 spiral rows of from 1 8 to 2 2 small 
rounded beads. The beads are slightly larger in the middle row. There are 
usually a number of fairly large, former varices. Color variable: all white or 
cream, or with reddish brown blotches. Very common in shallow water. 
C. versicolor C. B. Adams is this species. Compare with algicola which may 
ultimately prove to be a genetic form of this species. 

Cerithiwn algicola C. B. Adams Middle-spined Cerith 

Plate I9P 

Southern third of Florida and the West Indies. 
