

CORBULIDAE 457 

% of an inch in length, % as high, moderately thin-shelled and glossy. 
Beaks high, curled under and pointing anteriorly. Right valve subtrigonal 
in shape, very obese and with strong, concentric ridges. Left valve more 
elongate, smaller, less obese and with numerous but weaker ridges. Color 
white, but some may be tinted with rose near the margins. Uncommonly 
dredged from 12 to 250 fathoms. Live specimens very rare. This is C. disparilis of authors. 

Genus Corbula Bruguiere 1792 

Small, thick shells characterized by one valve (commonly the right) 
being larger than the other. Posterior end commonly rostrate. Resilium 
and ligament internal. The genus Aloidis Aliihlfeld was in current use until 
recently. 

Corhila contracta Say Contracted Corbula 

Cape Cod to Florida and the West Indies. 

^4 inch in length, oblong, moderately to strongly obese. Both valves 
about the same size, except that the posterior, ventral margin of the right 
valve overlaps that of the left. The numerous, poorly defined, concentric 
ridges on the outside of the valves extend over the posterior, radial ridge on 
to the posterior slope. The left valve has a V-shaped notch in the hinge 
just anterior to the beak. Color dirty-gray. A common shallow-water 
species. 

Corbula dietziana C. B. Adams Dietz's Corbula 

North Carohna to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% to ^ inch in length, like contracta, but larger, thicker-shelled and 
pinkish inside. The ventral margins are blushed or rayed with carmine-rose. 
Microscopic threads numerous between the few coarse, concentric ridges. 
Compare with the smaller and more comprecsed barrattiana. Commonly 
dredged offshore in the Miami region. 

Corbula nasuta Say Snub-nose Corbula 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

%6 to % inch in length, oblong, obese and strongly rostrate at the posterior end. The posterior end looks as if it had been severely pinched. Right 
valve considerably larger than the left. Margins of valves with a thick border 



458 



Ajnerican Seashells 



of dark-brown periostracum. Concentric sculpture of distinct ridges. Color 
yellowish to brownish white. Uncommon in shallow water. 

