Figure i8. Parts of the chiton shell. 



All the chitons discussed in this book bear eight shelly valves which 
cover the body of the creature and are bound together by a leathery girdle. 
The chitons without valves (Aplacophora) are too rare to be conveniently 
included here. A view of the underside of a living chiton will show the 
rather small, separate head and its mouth and, behind this, the larger, oblong foot. On each side of the foot is a straight row of closely packed gills. 
The head bears no tentacles or eyes, although the valves of many chitons 
bear numerous shell eyes. 

Each chiton possesses three types of valves: (i) the anterior valve at 
the head end, (2) six intermediate valves, and (3) the posterior valve at 
the hind end. The shape and ornamentation of these valves are used for 
identification purposes, and for this reason the various areas of the valves 
have been named. Removal of the last two valves by the soaking of dried 



Lives of the Other Mollusks 53 

specimens in warm water for five or ten minutes will usually afford sufficient 
information. The upper surface as well as the under surface of each valve 
has characteristic areas which aid in identification. 

In one family of chitons, the Chitonidae, the upper surfaces of the valves 
of some species bear microscopic eyes which consist of an eye capsule, 
cornea, iris, lens, retina and optic nerve, but they are probably useful only 
in sensing changes of light intensity and passing shadows. 

The girdle is the leathery rim which encircles the eight valves. In 
some species the girdle entirely or partially covers the valves. The surface of 
the girdle may be covered with beautiful little scales or with spines, hairs or 
tufts of bristles. Unfortunately these characters vary among individuals 
and cannot always be used to separate species, although the general types 
are fairly reliable in distinguishing genera. 

The radula or ribbon of teeth is very long, and is composed of thick 
and dark amber-colored teeth. There are usually about seventeen teeth in 
each transverse row, in the following order reckoned from the center: one 
simple, small central; flanked on each side first by a translucent minor lateral 
and then by a major lateral which bears a conspicuous black cusp; next, two 
boss-like uncinal plates; then a twisted spatulate uncinal; and, finally, three 
scale-like external uncini. The radula of the chitons have not been demonstrated as useful characters in separating species because of their great variability, although some workers claim that the major laterals are useful. 

The sexes are separate in the chitons. Some species lay eggs in a glutinous, indistinct mass. There may be a free-swimming veliger stage in some 
species. In other species the young live under the mantle edge of the mother 
for protection. 

THE TUSK-SHELLS— SCAPHOPODA 

To our Northwest Pacific Indians and our early pioneers the tusk-shells 
were a familiar form of wampum, but today few Americans would recognize one on sight. The 200-odd known living species are for the most part 
inhabitants of deep water, although a few of our American species live in relatively shallow water and are frequently washed ashore. The shells resemble 
miniature elephant tusks open at both ends, and the sluggish creature lives 
embedded obliquely in sand and mud, with only the small end of the shell 
projecting above the surface of the substrate. 

Like many gastropods, the scaphopods possess a single shell and a set 
