Genus Frimovula Thiele 1925 

Subgenus Pseiidosbnnia Schilder 1927 

Frimovula carnea Poiret Dwarf Red Ovula 

Plate 2 2q 

Southeast Florida, the West Indies and the Mediterranean. 

% to ^/2 inch in length. This species resembles a miniature cowrie. The 
body whorl is rotund, pink to yellow in color and with numerous, fine spiral, 
incised lines. Aperture narrow, arched, and with a canal at each end. Outer 
lip curled in like that of a cowrie, and with about 20 small, rounded, whitish 
teeth. Upper parietal wall with a large, rounded, short ridge or tooth. Apex 
not showing. Rare from 25 to 100 fathoms. 

Genus Pedicidaria Swainson 1840 
Subgenus Pediculariella Thiele 1925 

Fedicularia decussata Gould Decussate Pedicularia 

Plate yd 

Georgia to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

/4 to V2 inch in length, moderately thick-shelled, with a long and flaring 
aperture, and pure-white in color. Sculpture of fine reticulations with the 
spiral threads the strongest. Columella a straight ridge with the parietal wall 
concavely dished. The entire shell has a distorted, "squeezed" appearance. 
Nuclear whorls obese, translucent-brown, reticulated, and with a sinuate lip 



182 American Seashells 

when in its free-swimming, larval stage. An uncommon species found clinging to coral stems in moderately deep water. This is the only Eastern American species in this genus. 

Pedicularia californica Newcomb Californian Pedicularia 

Plate 7b, c 

Farallon Islands to San Diego, California. 

% to /4 inch in length, solid, aperture greatly enlarged and flaring. Apex 
hidden by the expanded lip. Early whorls showing minute decussations, the 
rest of the shell with small spiral threads. Interior uneven and glossy. Color 
rose with the outer lip whitish. Uncommon. Found attached to red hydrocoraUine, Allopora californica Verrill. We have also illustrated the form 
ovulifor7ms Berry (pi. 7c). 

Genus Neosimnia Fischer 1884 
Neosimnia acicularis Lamarck Common West Indian Simnia 

Plate 7a 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, narrow, glossy, thin-shelled but strong, and with a 
long, toothless aperture. Color deep lavender or yellowish. Columella area 
flattened or sometimes slightly dished and, in adults, always bordered by a 
