funnel attached to the head by muscular bands. There is a strong wrinkle 
behind the eye. 

Sepioteuthis sepioidea Blainville Atlantic Oval Squid 

Bermuda, Florida and the West Indies. 

Total length, including tentacular arms, 4 to 5 inches. Characterized by 
the long fins which commence a short distance behind the mantle edge i}A 
to % inch). Internal pen thin, lanceolate and without any marginal thickenings. Skin regularly and closely spotted with purple dots. The eggs are 
large, 5 to 8 mm. in diameter, and laid in long jelly tubes. A rather common, 
warm-water species. 



OMMASTREPHIDAE 48 3 

Genus Doryteuthis Naef 191 2 
Doryteuthis plei Blainville Plee's Striped Squid 

Florida and the West Indies. 

Up to 8 inches in length, including the tentacular arms. Characterized 
by the long, narrow, slightly wavy, dark-colored bands running back along 
the side of the mantle. The rest of the mantle is moderately covered with 
small round dots. The body is long and slender, the triangular fins on the 
last third of the mantle, and the arm suckers do not have pointed teeth on 
the horny circles. A common surface-living species of the Caribbean region. 

Oigopsid Squid — eyes naked in front, pupils circular; eyelids 

Family ARCHITEUTHIDAE 

Genus Architeuthis Steenstrup 1857 

Architeuthis harveyi Kent Harvey's Giant Squid 

Figure 99c 

Newfoundland Fishing Banks. 

Total length 40 to ^s ^^^^- Body stout, nearly round, swollen in the 
middle. Arms nearly equal in length, all bearing sharply, serrated suckers. 
Tentacular arms 4 times as long as the 8 sessile arms. The peculiar backward 
pointing tail fins separate this species from A. princeps Verrill, another giant 
squid found in the same area. A large well-preserved specimen of any giant 
squid is worth its weight in gold. No large specimens have been brought 
back from the fishing banks in many years. They may occasionally be 
washed ashore from Nova Scotia north. If you find one, take photographs if 
possible, and notify one of the leading museums. Giant squid of unknown 
identity have been seen in the Gulf of Mexico. 

Family OMMASTREPHIDAE 
Genus lllex Steenstrup 1880 

Resembhng Loligo somewhat, but with half-hidden eyes, the lids free 
and with a distinct notch or sinus in front. Internal pen narrow along the 
middle portion, and with three ribs. There are 8 rows of tiny suckers on 
the end section of the 2 long, tentacular arms. Further study may show that 
the genus lllex is the same as Ominastrephes Orbigny 1835. 
