Vancouver, B. C, to San Diego, California. 

1/4 to 3 inches in length, heavy, brick-red to reddish brown in color. 
Characterized by 5 to 6 strong, spiral cords on the flattish base. Operculum 
chitinous green on inner side; outer side swollen, smooth, enamel-white. 
Formerly A. inaequalis Martyn. Moderately common just offshore down to 
40 fathoms. 

Genus Homalopoma Carpenter 1864 

Shells small, turbinate in shape. Operculum calcareous, oval, thick; its 
exterior with a thick, paucispiral whorl. Underside of operculum convex 
with multispiral, chitinous whorling. Leptothyra Pease 1869 is this genus. 



Homalopoma albida Dall 

Southeast Florida, Cuba to Yucatan. 



White Dwarf Turban 



126 American Seashells 

Va inch in length, equally wide, very thick-shelled, resembling in shape 
a Margarites. Pure white in color. Whorls rounded, 5 to 6 in number, each 
bearing 5 to 6 strong, rounded, spiral cords, the lower 2 being below the 
periphery of the whorl. Aperture and parietal wall glossy, slightly opalescent. 
Columella arched, with a small tooth in the middle and a smaller one usually 
at the base. No umbilicus. Commonly dredged from 35 to 450 fathoms. 

H. linnei Dall from southeast Florida to Barbados has 8 smaller, beaded 
spiral cords on the upper part of the whorls and 10 on the base, otherwise 
it is very similar to albida. It is quite rare. 

Homalopoma carpenteri Pilsbry Carpenter's Dwarf Turban 

Plate i8i 

Alaska to Lower California. 

% to % inch (5 to 9 mm.) in length, solid, globose. Pinkish red to 
brownish red in color. Last whorl and base with 15 to 20, evenly sized, 
smooth, spiral cords separated from each other by a space about half as wide 
as the cords. Base of pearly columella with 2 or 3 exceedingly weak nodules. 
A very common species frequently washed ashore and inhabited by small 
hermit crabs from Monterey to Mexico. Do not confuse with lurida. 

Homalopoma lurida Dall Dark Dwarf Turban 

Puget Sound to Lower California. 

% inch (5 to 7 mm.) in length, similar to carpenteri, but half as large, 
black-brown in color, although occasionally whitish with red axial streaks. 
The spiral cords are usually fewer in number and more rounded. Moderately 
common in shallow water under rocks. 
