Plate 31 V 

Crescent City, California, to Chile. 

I to 1% inches in length, elongate-oval, moderately compressed. In 
front of the beaks there is a small, elongate depression. Just posterior to and 
partially covered by the inroUed beaks is a small, short ligament, posterior to 
which is a wide, flaring furrow. Concentric sculpture of numerous wavy, 
rather sharp, fairly large threads. Color grayish white. Pallial sinus very 
long. Abundant in rock crevices and wharf pilings. Also dredged down to 
25 fathoms. 

Genus Abra Lamarck 18 18 

Shell small (/4 inch), fragile, ovalish, smooth, moderately compressed. 
Translucent-white in color. Resilium internal and supported by a linear 
chondrophore. Right valve with 2 cardinals and generally with 2 lamellar 
laterals. 



DONACIDAE 437 

Abra aequalis Say Common Atlantic Abra 

Plate 30V 

North Carolina to Texas and the West Indies. 

1/4 inch in size, orbicular, smooth, glossy and rather inflated. Surface 
may show a slight iridescence. Periostracum very thin and clear yellowish. 
Anterior margin of right valve grooved. A very abundant and very simplelooking bivalve. Compare with lioica. 

Abra lioica Dall Dall's Little Abra 

Plate 3o\v 

Cape Cod to south Florida and the West Indies. 

M inch in size, similar to aequalis, but the beaks are nearer the anterior 
end, the shell is thinner, and more elongate. Anterior margin of right valve 
not grooved. The prodissoconch at the beaks is large, tan and more trigonal 
in shape than the adult. Common from 6 to 200 fathoms. 

Family DONACIDAE 
Genus Donax Linne 1758 

The posterior end is the shortest and the fattest. 2 cardinal and an anterior and a posterior lateral in each valve. Pallial sinus deep. 

Donax variabilis Say Coquina Shell 

Plate 3or 

Virginia to south Florida and Texas. 

V2 to % inch in length. Ventral margin of the valves straight and almost 
parallel with the dorsal margin. The thinner, anterior end is commonly 
smooth, but may be microscopically scratched with radial Unes. From the 
middle of the valve to the blunt posterior end, small radial threads appear 
which become increasingly larger posteriorly. Internal margin of valves 
