
Semele nibropicta Dall Rose Petal Semele 

Plate 29\v 

Alaska to Mexico. 

I to 1% inches in length; beaks % toward the posterior end; rather 
thick-shelled, especially in the south. Concentric sculpture of small, irregular growth lines. Radial incised lines numerous. Periostracum thin, smooth 
and yellowish brown. Exterior of shell dull grayish or tannish white with 
faint, radial rays of light-mauve. Imterior glossy-white, with a small splotch 
of mauve at both ends of the hinge line. Uncommon from 20 to 50 fathoms. 

Se77iele rupicola Dall Rock-dwelling Semele 

Plate 29t 

Santa Cruz, California, to the Gulf of California. 

I to 1% inches in length. Irregular in shape: ovalish, oval-elongate or 
obliquely oval. Exterior yellowish cream with numerous, concentric crinkles 
and a few ^eak radial threads. Interior glossy, white at the center, bright 
purplish red at the margins and hinge. John Q. Burch finds this species common in Chama and Mytilus beds and in rocks and crevices. 

Semele decisa Conrad Bark Semele 

Plate 29Z 
San Pedro, California, to Lower California. 



436 A?rierican Seas hells 

2 to 3 inches in length, equally high. Characterized by its heavy shell, 
by the coarse, wide, irregular, concentric folds on the outside (resembling 
rotting bark or wood). Exterior yellowish gray; interior glossy-white, with 
a purple tinge, especially prominent on the hinge and margins. Commonly 
found in rocky rubble in shallow water. 

Genus Ciimingia Sowerby 1833 

Shell delicate, with concentric lamellae; slightly gaping behind. Resilium 
internal and supported by a spoon-shaped chondrophore. One cardinal and 
2 elongate lateral teeth in each valve. 

Cumingia telUnoides Conrad Tellin-like Cumingia 

Nova Scotia to St. Augustine, Florida. 

% to % inch in length, oblong and fairly thin. Slightly pointed at the 
posterior end. Exterior chalky-white, with tiny, sharp, concentric lines. This 
is a moderately common mud-digger which externally resembles a Tellina. 

The subspecies va?ihy?jhigi Rehder 1939 replaces the typical species in 
southern Florida to Texas. It is not so high, is more elongate and more 
drawn out posteriorly. Common in shallow water. C. coarctata Sowerby 
(Lower Keys and West Indies) has stronger, more widely separated concentric ridges. 

Cumingia calijornica Conrad Californian Cumingia 

