The horn shells are intertidal mud-lovers. The shells are elongate and 
with lo to 15 convex whorls. Axial ribs are more prominent on the early 
whorls. Outer lip flares. Operculum horny, thin, paucispiral and with its 
nucleus at the center. 

Subgenus Cerithideopsis Thiele 1929 
Cerithidea costata da Costa Costate Horn Shell 

Plate 19U 

West coast of Florida and the West Indies. 

/4 inch in length, translucent, pale yellowish brown. With 9 to 1 2 very 
convex whorls. Axial, curved ribs are round and distinct on the early whorls, 
fading out on the last two whorls. No old varices present. A common 
shallow-water, mud-loving species. 

The subspecies C. costata turrita Stearns, the Turret Horn Shell from 
the Tampa-Sanibel region, has 15 to 20 (instead of 25 to 30) axial ribs on the 
next to the last whorl. 

Cerithidea pliculosa Menke Plicate Horn Shell 

Plate ipt 

Texas, Louisiana and the West Indies. Not Florida. 

I inch in length, brownish black in color. 11 to 13 slightly convex 
whorls. Several yellowish, former varices are present. Numerous spiral 
threads make the axial ribs slightly nodulose. Locally common. It may yet 
turn up in northwest Florida. 

Cerithidea scalari^orvns Say Ladder Horn Shell 

Plate 19X 

South Carolina to south half of Florida and the West Indies. 

% to I % inches in length. Pale russet-brown to slightly violaceous, usually with many conspicuous, dirty-white, spiral bands. 10 to 13 moderately 
convex whorls. Many coarse, axial ribs present which stop abruptly below 
the periphery of the whorl at a sharply marked, rounded spiral ridge. Base 
of shell with 6 to 8 spiral ridges. No former varices. Common on mud flats. 

Cerithidea hegeivischi cali^ornica Haldeman California Horn Shell 

Bolinas Bay, California, to Lower California. 

I to I /4 inches in length, resembling our photo of C. pliculosa from the 
Atlantic (pi. i9t). Whorls 11, spirally and weakly threaded, and axially 
strongly ribbed (12 to 18 ribs per whorl). Dark-brown in color with i or 



CERITHIIDAE 15 3 

2 yellowish white, swollen varices on the spire. A very common species 
found in large colonies on mud flats. 



