


120 American Seashells 

Tegiila aureotincta Forbes Gilded Tegula 

Plate 1 8k 

Southern third of California to Mexico. 

% to I inch in length, heavy; dark grayish to gray-green; characterized 
by a golden-yellow stain within the deep, round, narrow umbilicus, by the 
sky-blue band around the umbilicus, and by the 4 or 5 strong, smoothish, spiral 
cords on the periphery and the base. Top of whorls with weak, crude, slanting, axial wrinkles. A moderately common, littoral, rock-loving species. 

Tegula ligulata Menke Western Banded Tegula 

Plate i8h 

Monterey, California, to Acapulco, Mexico. 

% inch in length, heavy; whorls and spire convex. Umbilicus very deep, 
round and fairly narrow. Whorls with numerous, beaded, spiral cords. Outer 
lip sharp, but thickened and pearly within. Lower part of lip with about 8 
small nodules opposite the spiral threads which run back into the aperture. 
Color rusty-brown with black flecks. Compare with aureotincta whose umbilical area is stained with greenish blue and golden-yellow. A moderately 
common littoral, rock-dweller. 

Subgenus Chlorostoma Swainson 1840 
Tegula regina Stearns Queen Tegula 

Plate 3f 

Catalina Island to the Gulf of California. 

I /4 inches in length, slightly wider; 6 to 7 whorls, spire flat-sided; base 
slightly concave. With numerous slanting, small, axial cords. The crenulated 
periphery slightly overhangs the suture of the whorls below. Base with 
strong, arched lamellae. Color dark purplish gray. Umbilical region stained 
with bright golden-yellow. A rather rare and choice collector's item secured 
by diving. It has also been washed ashore on Catalina Island. 

Subgenus Froviartynia Dall 1909 
Tegula pulligo Gmelin 1791 {<tlawname>marcida Gould</tlawname>) Dusky Tegula 

Plate i8y 

Alaska to Santa Barbara, California. 

I to 1/4 inches in length, slightly wider. Resembles brumiea, but has 
a deep, round umbilicus and a thin, rather sharp columella. It is also very 
similar to nwntereyi, but its whorls are more rounded and its umbilicus is 
more smoothly rounded and without the white color and faint spiral ridges 
found in montereyi. This species is doubtfully placed here and perhaps 



TURBINIDAE 121 

