fairly large, smooth and translucent-white. Operculum oval, concentric, 
chitinous, and light yellow-brown. A very variable shell which sometimes 
lacks the axial ribs but may have numerous spiral threads. Common just offshore to several fathoms in cold water. 

Buccinum tenue Gray Silky Buccinum 

Plate 24U 

Arctic Seas to Washington State. Arctic Seas to the Gulf of Maine. 

1V2 to 1V2 inches in length; aperture 'V2 the length of the shell. Outer 
lip slightly sinuate, thin and slightly flaring. Axial ribs small, numerous, intertwining and extending from suture to suture. Spiral sculpture of microscopic, 
beaded threads giving a silky appearance. Color light-brown. Common offshore. Compare with plectrum Stimpson. 

Buccinum plectrum Stimpson Plectrum Buccinum 

Figure 51a 

Arctic Seas to Puget Sound. Arctic Seas to the Gulf of St. Lawrence. 

2 to 3 inches in length; aperture a little more than % the entire length 
of the shell. Outer lip strongly sinuate, thickened and flaring. Axial ribs 



226 American Seashells 

small (but larger and fewer than those in temie), and limited to the upper 
fourth of the whorl. Spiral sculpture of numerous rough, but microscopic, 
incised lines. Color grayish white. Common offshore in cold water. Do not 
confuse with B. tenue. 

Buccinum glaciale Linne Glacial Buccinum 

Plate 24t 

Arctic Seas to Washington State. Arctic Seas to the Gulf of St. Lawrence. 

2 to 3 inches in length, fairly thick-shelled, but light in comparison to 
its size. Characterized by its thick, flaring, turned-back outer lip, and by the 
2 wavy, strong spiral cords on the periphery of the whorl. Spiral incised 
lines numerous. Color mauve-brown. Aperture cream with a purplish flush 
within. Common from low tide to several fathoms in the Arctic region. 

Buccinum baeri Middendorff Baer's Buccinum 

Plate 24V 

Bering Sea. 

I to 2 inches in length, resembling a thin, beach-worn Thais lima. Aperture about % the length of the shell. Rather thin, smoothish, except for m.icroscopic, incised spiral lines. Color drab grayish with purplish to reddish 
undertones. Periostracum, when present, is thin, translucent and light-brown. 
Operculum V5 the size of the aperture. Commonly found washed ashore on 
the beaches of Alaska and the Aleutians. A very unattractive shell. 

Genus Volutopsius Morch 1857 
Subgenus Volutopsius s. str. 

Volutopsius castaneus Morch Chestnut Buccinum 

