Off the Texas Coast. 

1% inches in length, similar to A. lienosa fioridmia, but much fatter, 
with 28 to 30 weakly noduled ribs which are not split, and with a strongly 
posterior-sloping anterior ventral margin. Common offshore down to 50 
fathoms. A. springeri Rehder and Abbott, published a month later, is this 
species. 

Anadara transversa Say Transverse Ark 

Plate 27s 

South of Cape Cod to Florida and Texas. 

% to 1/4 inches in lengtli. Left valve overlaps right valve. Ligament 
fairly long, moderately narrow, rough or pustulose. Ribs on left valve usually 
beaded, rarely so on right valve; 30 to 35 ribs per valve. Periostracum grayish brown, usually wears off except along base of valves. Fairly common in 
mud below low water. The smallest of the Atlantic Anadaras. Distinguished 
from ovalis by its longer, wider, more distinct external ligament. A. sulcosa 
van Hyning 1 946 is this species. 

Subgenus Lunar ca Grav 1847 

The subgenera Argina Gray and Arginarca McLean 1951 are probably 
the same. 

Anadara ovalis Bruguiere Blood Ark 

Plate 27t 

Cape Cod to the West Indies and the Gulf States. 

1/4 to 2% inches in length, not very thick, roundish to ovate; square, 
smooth ribs; ligament very narrow and depressed; beaks close together. Periostracum black-brown, hairy. Ribs 26 to 35 in number. 

Dall considered the forms ''pexata Say" and ''americana Wood" too indistinct for recognition. This species was known for a long time as campechiensis Gmelin and is common. 



346 American Se ash ells 

Subgenus Cunearca Dall 1898 
Anadara brasiliana Lamarck Incongruous Ark 

Plate 27y 

North Carolina to West Florida to Texas and the West Indies. 

I to 1V2 inches in length; almost as high as long. Beaks facing each 
other at center of short, transversely striate ligamental area. Left valve overlaps right valve considerably. Ribs 26 to 28, square with strong bar-like beads. 
Periostracum thin, light-brown. A. mcongnia Say is this species. 

A. chemnitzi Philippi from the Greater Antilles to Brazil is similar, but 
thick-shelled, less than i inch in length; the beaks are slightly forward of the 
center of the ligamental area. 

Subfamily NOETllNAE 
Genus Noetia Gray 1857 

Beaks point posteriorly; valves the same size; ligament transversely striate; posterior muscle scar raised to form a weak flange. 
