is no longer used in species names (not smithii, but smkhi). 

Name changing. There is nothing more annoying than having a wellknown and frequently used scientific name changed; and the field of mollusks seems to be having its lion's share of tossing out of old friends for utter 
strangers. There are two basic kinds of changes — zoological and nomenclarorial. Everyone will condone the former, for it is obvious, as our knowledge 
increases, that certain genera or even species will be found to be mixtures, 
and this necessitates separating and applying new names. In this book, for 
example, Fasciolaria gigantea is changed to Pleuroploca gigantea. The Horse 
Conch, P. gigantea, does not have characters like those of the tulip shells, 
and it cannot be put in the genus Fasciolaria with such species as F. tulipa 
Linne and F. hunteria Perry. For the same reason, what has been called by 
many workers Ostrea virginica is now Crassostrea virginica. Venus mercenaria is now Mercenaria mercenaria. 

Nomenclatorial name changing is hardest for everyone to accept. As 
not infrequently happens, a species may be given several different names 
inadvertently by various authors. The International Commission for Zoological Nomenclature has set up an extensive set of rules; among these is the 
rule of priority by which the earliest valid name is chosen if several names 
are available. Unfortunately, the earliest name may have been overlooked 



How to K?iow American Seashells 87 

for many years, and its subsequent discovery will "knock out" one which 
has been in use for a long time. Thus about thirty years ago the whelk 
genus Fiilgur Lamarck 1799 was abandoned for Busycojt Roding 1798. The 
same fate may be met by well-known species. Thus Busy con pyruin Dillwyn 
1817 now becomes B. spirata Lamarck 181 6. It is believed that "rock bottom" will be reached some day, so that few, if any, further changes will 
occur. Nevertheless, it is with considerable regret that I change a number 
of familiar names in this book. 

Occasionally, certain names are conserved or "frozen" by the Commission if they are well-established and are in danger of being replaced by 
an earlier but obscurely known name. The following marine genera of 
mollusks are on the conserved list: Aplysia, Area, Argonauta, Buccinum, 
Bulla, Calyptraea, Cohnnbella, Dentalhnn, Mactra, Modiolus, Mya, Alytihis, 
Neritina, Ostrea, Sepia, Spirula, Teredo. Many others, including very 
familiar species names, need to be added to this list. There are many technical refinements to nomenclature, and those interested in such matters are 
referred to Procedure in Taxonomy by Schenk and McMasters (Stanford 
University Press). 

Pronunciatioji of scientific names. There is no official pronunciation 
established for names, and for certain words it may vary from one county 
to another. Many pronunciations not based on classical rules have become 
established and passed on from generation to generation. A few examples, 
classical or not, are given below: 

Oliva (all-eeva), EuJima (you-lee-mah), Chiton (kite-on), Chama 
(kam-ah), Chione (kigh-own-ee), Cypraea (sip-ree-ah), Cyphoma (sighfo-mah), versicolor (ver-sik-o-lor said quickly). Busy con (boos-eekon), 
]anthina (yan-theena), Xenophora (zen-off-fora), gigas (rhymes with "jibe 
gas": )i-gas), conch (konk), radula (rad-you-lah), operciihim (oh-perkyou-lum), smithi (smith-eye), ruthae (rooth-ee). The pronunciations of 
some of the authors are: Linne (lin-ay) or sometimes Linnaeus (lin-ee-us), 
Gould (goold), Deshayes (desh-ayz), Orbigny (or-bee-nee), Gmelin (mellan), Bruguiere (broo-gui-air), Kiener (keen-er), Mighels (my-els), Couthouy (koo-thoo-ee). 

Cominon abbreviations of names of ivell-known authors. Although 
most popular and scientific books spell in full the names of authors of scientific designations, a large number of articles and most museum labels bear 
only abbreviations. For this reason, a short list of frequently seen examples 
is included: 

A. Ads. — A. Adams B. and S. — Broderip and Sowerby 

A. and H. — Alder and Hancock Brod. — Broderip 
