Genus MargiJiella Lamarck 1799 

Subgenus Eratoidea Weinkauff 1879 

Marginella haematka Kiener Carmine Marginella 

Figure 56a 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

^ inch in length, characterized by its glossy, bright and deep rose color, 
4 strong columella teeth, pointed spire and thickened outer lip whose inner 
edge bears about 15 small, round teeth. Uncommon from 25 to 90 fathoms. 
M. philtata M. Smith and M. jaspidea Schwengel are probably this species. 

Marginella denticulata Conrad Tan Marginella 

Figure 56c 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, similar to haematita, but with a longer spire, only 7 to 
9 teeth on the outer lip, with a shallow U-shaped notch at the top of the 
aperture, and the entire shell is yellow-tan to whitish. Uncommon from low 
tide to 600 fathoms. M. eburneola Conrad is this species. 

Marginella aureocincta Stearns Golden-lined Marginella 

Figure 56b 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

ViQ inch (4.0 mm.) in length; aperture half the length of the entire shell; 
spire pointed. Outer lip thickened, with about 4 very small teeth just inside 
the aperture. Columella with 4 strong folds or teeth. Color translucentwhite, with two distinct, narrow spiral bands of light tan-orange on the body 
whorl (i showing in the whorls of the spire). A very common species from 
low-water line to 90 fathoms. 

Genus Fnmwn Herrmannsen 1852 
Prunu77J carneum Storer Orange Marginella 

Plate Ilk 
Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, very glossy; outer lip thickened, smooth and white. 
Apex half covered by a callus of enamel. Lower third of columella with 4 
strong, slanting teeth. Shell bright orange with a faint, narrow, whitish, 
spiral band on the middle of the whorl and one just below the suture. Uncommon in Florida on reef flats to 6 fathoms. 

Frunum roosevelti Bartsch and Rehder Roosevelt's Marginella 

Plate ii-o 

The Bahamas. 




Figure 56. Marginellas. a, Marginella haematita Kiener; b, M. aureocincta Stearns; 
c, M. dejjticulta Conrad; d, Prunum bellmn Conrad; e, Frunum amabile Redfield; 
