


452 American Seashells 

Genus Ervilia Turton 1822 

Shell small, concentrically striate, and sometimes brightly hued. Ligament absent; resihum small and internal. Laterals small. Left cardinal large 
and bifid or split. 

Ervilia concentrica Gould Concentric Ervilia 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

%6 of an inch in length, % as high, elliptical in outline, moderately compressed, although some are somewhat inflated. Each end is rounded to the 
same degree, and the beaks are central. There is a pinpoint depression just 
behind the glossy, inroUed beaks. Sculpture of fine, numerous concentric 
ridges. Radial threads may be present to form tiny beads. Color white, 
yellow or commonly with a pink blush. Common just offshore to 50 fathoms. 
E. rostratula Rehder from Lake Worth, Florida, is similar, but the posterior 
end is slightly more pointed. 

Family HIATELLIDAE 
Genus Hiatella Daudin 1801 

Shell irregular due to nestling and burrowing habits. Texture chalky. 
No definite teeth in the thickened hinge of the adults. Pallial line discontinuous; siphons naked and slightly separated at the tips. Saxicava Fleuriau 
1802 is the same. 

Hiatella arctica Linne Arctic Saxicave 

Figure 92a 

Arctic Seas to deep water in the West Indies. Arctic Seas to deep water 
off Panama. 



PKODISSOCONCH 




Figure 92. The young shells of Hiatella reared under the same artificial conditions. 
a, Hiatella arctica Linne; b, H. striata Fleuriau. (After M. Lebour 1938.) 

Generally i inch in length, but rarely 2 to 3 inches. A very variable 
species in its shape. The young are rather evenly oblong, but the adults 
become oblong, oval or twisted and misshapen. The shell is elongate with 



HIATELLIDAE 45 3 

the dorsal and ventral margins usually parallel to each other. A posterior 
gape may be present. Beaks close together, about % back from the anterior 
end. Just behind them is a conspicuous, bean-shaped, external ligament. 
Shell chalky, white and with coarse, irregular growth lines. Periostracum 
gray, thin and usually flakes oif in dried specimens. With a weak or fairly 
strong radial rib at the posterior end. The rib may be scaled. Common in 
