
Man and Mollusks 13 

ancients. They understood it as several colors ranging from dull crimson 
and magenta to violet-purple. The most expensively dyed cloth was made 
in Tyre and was more on the order of a dull red. In Sidon, where <tname>Miirex 
trunculiis</tname> was mainly used, the color was closer to our modern idea of purple. 
The wide range in hues of Tyrian purple was brought about by different 
strengths of, and varied techniques in making, the dye, including the doubledip system of dibapha in which the first bath consisted of extracts from Thais 
and the second dip taking place in Murex dye. The type of cloth and weave 
also produced wide variations. 

There is no question that cloth dyed with Tyrian purple was extremely 
valuable and at times vied in value even with gold. Hence it was reserved 
for the use of the wealthy and the hangings of temples. The Babylonians are 
said to have used it for the dress of their idols. A few of our museums possess small pieces of Egyptian mummy wrappings which were dyed with 
Tyrian purple. However, it is necessary to make a chemical analysis to prove 
the presence of this dye, for the ancients were able to produce a similar color 
by double dyeing with indigo and madder. 

The Bible makes several references to this valuable purple. Moses used it 
for the works of the tabernacle, as well as for the clothing of the high priest. 
Among the presents which the Israelites made to Gideon were purple raiments that belonged to the kings of Midian. Much later, according to Acts 
1 6, verse 14, a seller of purple from <tname>Thyatira</tname> was converted by St. Paul at 
Phihppi. 

Aristotle and Pliny both gave fairly detailed accounts of the industry 
widespread throughout Asia A4inor. Plutarch records that when Alexander 
took possession of Susa he found among the treasures of Darius 5000 talents 
in weight (290,000 pounds) of purple cloth. Athenaeus states that the dye 
was extensively used as a cosmetic and was applied as a lipstick and rouge 
in Rome. At the fateful battle of Actium, the ship of Marcus Antonius and 
Cleopatra was distinguished from the rest of the fleet by having sails solidly 
dyed in Tyrian purple. It is difficult to believe, as many authorities claim, 
that the Tyrians kept the process a secret even for a short time, for we find 
that factories existed throughout most areas in the Mediterranean. 

In Rome only senators were allowed to wear a broad purple stripe (latus 
clavus) around the opening of the tunic. Laws were finally introduced by 
Nero and again by Theodosius (379-395 A.D.) prohibiting the wearing of 
Tyrian purple except by the Emperor himself. Except for its later use by 
the Christian church, especially in cardinal cloaks, the crimson color ceased 
to be worn or manufactured after the fall of the Roman Empire and the conquest of Tyre by the Arabs in 638 A.D. It would scarcely pay to revive the 
industry except perhaps as a novelty item for tourists. The color is not particularly exciting to the modern eye, and, in addition, it may be synthetically 



14 American Se ash ells 

produced at low cost, so that one has no assurance that a souvenir textile is 
actually dyed with molluscan purple. 

The Mediterranean area and the west coast of Africa were not the only 
regions where mollusks were used for dyeing. In the British Isles the art 
seems to have been known from very early times. The Celts of England and 
the Lake Dwellers of Ireland (about looo B.C.) used the common <tname>Thais 
Japilhis</tname> which is also abundant on New^ England shores. As late as the eighteenth century this species was used for marking linen in England, Scotland, 
France and Norway. The French used molluscan purple to dye the parchment of rare books, some examples of which are still bright after 800 years. 

Had the Phoenicians possessed the compass and ventured to the West 
