Conns floridamis Gabb Florida Cone 

Plate i4d 
North Carolina to both sides of Florida. 

1/4 to 1% inches in length. Spire well-elevated and slightly concave. 
Sides of whorls flat. The top of each whorl in the spire is concave and also 
has faint lines of growth. Color variable: usually white with elongate, rather 
wide patches of light orange-yellow to yellow. Spire with splashes of color. 
There is usually a white, spiral band around the middle of the whorl which 
may have small dots of yellowish brown. Moderately common in shallow 
water to 7 fathoms. 

Conus ftoridaniis floridensis Sowerby (pi. 146) is an extremely dark color 
form with spiral rows of reddish brown dots and heavier mottlings. 

C. floridanus biirryae Clench is another color form from off the Lower 
Florida Keys in which the spiral rows of brownish dots merge into solid lines. 
The lower end of the shell in very dark brown to deep brownish black. Uncommon. 

Conus sennottorum Rehder and Abbott Sennotts' Cone 

Plate i4h 

Gulf of Mexico, from Tortugas to Yucatan. 

I inch in length, with a glossy, smooth finish. Slightly turnip-shaped. 
Color variable: white to bluish white with spiral rows of very small brown 
dots. Yellowish-brown maculations may be present. Moderately common in 
18 fathoms off Yucatan. Named after John and Gladys Sennott. 

Conus sozoni Bartsch Sozon's Cone 

Plate 14c 

South Carolina to Key West and the Gulf of Mexico. 



262 American Se ash ells 

2 to 4 inches in length. Spire elevated, slightly concave, with the top of 
each whorl also concave and with fine, arched lines of growth. There are lo 
to 12 small spiral ridges at the lower end of the shell. Sides of whorls flat. 
Color as shown in the photograph, with the two whitish spiral bands being 
characteristic. Large and perfect specimens are collector's items, although 
individuals less than 2 inches in length are rather commonly dredged in 50 
feet of water off both sides of Florida. Beach specimens have been collected 
on rare occasions. Named after the sponge diver, Sozon Vatikiotis. 

Conus regius Gmelin Crown Cone 

Plate 14m 
Southern Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 3 inches in length. Spire low; shoulders of whorls with low, irregular knobs or tubercles. Color very variable even in the same locality. A 
rare yellowish color form (citrmus Gmelin, not Clench 1942) occurs in the 
Lower Florida Keys, Cuba and the Antilles. The interior of the aperture of 
this species is white. Uncommon in Florida. 

