Cojiiis clarki Rehder and Abbott Clark.'s Cone 

Plate 141 

Off Louisiana. 

I to i^ inches in length, whitish in color and with small weak spots, 
rather turnip-shaped, similar to austini, but with 27 to 30 very strong, squarish spiral cords on the sides. The cords, and especially the one at the shoulder, 
are strongly beaded. Between the cords there are microscopic, axial threads. 
Periostracum gray. Apparently rare offshore in 29 fathoms. This and the 
preceding species were named after Austin H. Clark, scientist, author and 
gentleman. C. frisbeyae Clench and Pulley 1952 is unquestionably this species. 



TEREBRIDAE 265 

Conus californiciis Hinds Californian Cone 

Farallon Islands, California, to Lower California. 

% to I inch in length. Spire moderately elevated and slightly concave. 
The shoulders of the shell are rounded, the sides very slightly rounded. The 
chestnut to pale-brown, velvety periostracum is rather thick. Shell grayish 
white in color. Interior whitish with a light-brown tint. Rather common in 
shallow water along certain parts of southern California. 

Fayjiily TEREBRIDAE 
Genus Terebra Bruguiere 1789 

T ere bra dish cat a Say Common Atlantic Auger 

Plate 26i 

Virginia to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 

1/4 to 2 inches in length, slender. Whorls with about 25 axial ribs per 
whorl which are divided % to ^ their length by a deep, impressed, spiral 
line. Many specimens show prominent, squarish, raised spiral cords between 
the ribs. Columella with 2 fused spiral folds near the base. Color a dirty, 
pinkish gray, but sometimes orangish. A common shallow-water species. 

Terebra tanr'wa Solander Flame Auger 

Plate i3h 
Southeast Florida, the Gulf of Mexico and the West Indies. 

4 to 6 inches in length, heavy, rather slender. Characterized by a cream 
color with 2 spiral rows of axial, red-brown bars, the upper series being twice 
as long as the lower one. Upper M'horls faintly and axially ribbed. Upper 
half of each whorl swollen and with a single incised line. T. flannnea Lamarck and T. jeldmajuii Roding are this species. Formerly considered quite 
rare, but now not infrequently dredged in the Gulf of Mexico. 

Terebra floridana Dall Florida Auger 

Off South Carolina to south Florida. 

2 to 3 inches in length, very long and slender. Color light-yellow to 
yellowish white. Each whorl has just below the suture a row of about 20 
oblong, slightly slanting, smooth axial ribs. Below this, and separated from it 
