


LeNGTH 

OR 
HEIGHT 



PftR»eTAL.V(ALL 
BASE 



ANTERIOR OR 
S\PHOMAL CANAL 



Figure 23. Parts of the gastropod shell. 

The aperture of the shell is the hole or space at the end of the body 
whorl into which the mollusk can withdraw itself. The edge of the body 
whorl which borders the aperture is known as the Up (sometimes called the 
peristome in technical works). Sometimes the lip is thickened greatly or flaring like an old-fashioned blunderbuss. Any startling development of the lip 
is generally a sign of adulthood. If the lip thickens into an unusually large, 
rounded, sharp rib it is known as a varix. Varices may be produced at various 



76 American Seashells 

stages in the growth of a shell, and their number and position are nsed as 
identifying characters (see Bursa, the frog shells, pi. 9k) . 

For the sake of convenience, the part of the lip which is away from the 
center of the shell or is not next to the axis of the shell is known as the outer 
lip. Opposite this on the other side of the aperture is the inner lip or parietal 
wall which may be thickened, armed with teeth (see Nerita, pi. 4) or have 
a parietal shield (see the helmet shells. Cassis, pi. 23V). The inner lip is continuous with the thickened axis or colwnella of the shell about which the 
whorls are developed. In many kinds of marine gastropods, especially the 
murexes, the columella extends forward and forms the tube-like anterior 
siphonal canal. In a few genera there is a small posterior ca?jal formed at the 
upper or posterior end of the aperture (see Bursa, pi. 9k). 

The outer lip in a few genera has a very characteristic notch or slit. It 
is longest in the very rare, large Pleurotomaria shell (pi. 3). The "stromboid 
notch" in the conchs is weak but distinct. In the abalones, Haliotis (pi. 2), 
the slit is replaced by a series of small, round anal holes. Nearly all the turrids are recognized by their "turrid notch" on the upper portion of the outer 
lip. The Keyhole Limpets, Fissurella, have reduced the slit to a single small 
hole which is located at the apex of their cap-shaped shells, although in their 
young stages the slit is well-developed at the edge of the shell (see fig. 5). 

The sculpturing on the exterior of the shell — ribs, nodules, cords, 
threads, indented lines, pits, spines, etc. — are grouped into two basic types: 
( I ) The axial sculpture, that is, any markings, ribs or lines which run across 
the whorl in line with the axis of the shell or from suture to suture. Sometimes it is called longitudinal sculpture. Varices, growth lines and the outer 
lip are axial features. (2) The spii'al sculpture, which is spirally arranged in 
the direction of the suture or in line with the direction of the growth of the 
