I to 3 inches in length. Color variable: brown, gray or yellowish, 
always more or less spotted and freckled with lilac, gray or brown and 
opaque-white. Number of papillae fcM^er in young specimens. 30 rows in 
radula of a single, broad, arched tooth bearing about 46 denticles. 

Family TERGIPEDIDAE 

Genus Catriona Winckworth 1941 

(Cratena of authors) 

Catriona aurantia Alder and Hancock Orange-tipped Eolis 

Plate 15J 

Arctic Seas to Connecticut. Europe. 

% inch in length. Branchiae numerous, occurring in 10 or 11 close, 
transverse rows, anteriorly with 5 to 6 papillae per row, posteriorly with 2 



FLABELLINIDAE 309 

to 4. Radula of 80 plates which are horseshoe-shaped and with 6 strong, 
straight denticles. Not too common. C. aurantiaca A. and H. is the same 
species. 

Genus Tergipes Cuvier 1805 

Body slender; tentacles simple, the oral pair very short. Branchiae not 
very numerous, fusiform, inflated, set in a single series on each side of the 
back; foot narrow, anterior angles rounded. Egg mass kidney-shaped. Radula with a single row of plates, each with a stout central denticle and numerous delicate marginal denticles. 

Tergipes despectus Johnston Johnston's Balloon Eolis 

Plate i5d 

Arctic Seas to New York. Europe. 

% inch in length, characters as shown in our figure and in the generic 
description. Gregarious on hydroids. Shore to 8 fathoms. Common (?). 

Fa7nily GLAUCIDAE 
Genus Glaucus Forster 1777 

Glaiiciis mamnis Du Pont 1763 Blue Glaucus 

Worldwide, pelagic in warm waters. 

2 inches in length, body elongate, head small. Tentacles and rhinophores 
very small. 4 clumps of vivid-blue frills on each side of the body. Dorsal 
side smooth, striped with dark-blue, light-blue and white. Underside pale 
grayish blue. With strong jaws and a radula of a center row of about 10 
denticulated teeth. Moderately common at certain seasons. Washed ashore 
with Janthina, the Purple Sea-snail. G. atlanticiis Forster, G. radiata Gmelin 
and G, forsteri Lamarck are all this species. 

Family FLABELLINIDAE 
Genus Eiibranchiis Forbes 1838 
