about the time of Columbus' voyages. Bound, as they supposed, for the 
Indies, where the cowry was formerly (like our wampum) a staple article 
of barter, the exploring vessels would have undoubtedly carried cowries 
as well as other articles of trade we know they carried. It would not have 
taken them long to find out that cowries did not pass as currency with 
American natives, and reporting this on their return to Spain later traders 
would not have carried them for barter. The necklace or bracelet you 
obtained may have passed from hand to hand as a curiosity (as I have 
known such things to do) until it reached a people who knew nothing 
of whites 'till much later. In fact your cowries may have come off one of 
Columbus' own vessels. 

If not from one of Columbus' ships, these shells more than likely were 
brought over from Europe soon afterward by early Spanish explorers. It 
does not seem so plausible to assume, as some ethnologists do, that these shells 
were brought by migrating tribes from eastern Asia to America via the Bering 
Straits lonsr before the time of Columbus. 

The Lewis and Clark Expedition brought back in 1 805 a handsome dress, 
possibly of Cree origin, which was adorned with four dozen Money Cowries. 



8 



American Seashells 



Another Money Cowrie was unearthed near the so-called Onatonabee Serpent Mound of Peterboro County in Ontario, Canada. It is most hkely that 
in both of these cases the shells were the remnants of the Hudson's Bay Company's shell stock which was bartered with the Cree and other Indians well 
before the time of the Lewis and Clark Expedition. 

A hvely trade in marine shells took place for centuries among the preColumbian peoples of southwestern United States. Archaeological studies in 
that area have been able to confirm the existence of trade routes which then 
existed from three principal geographical areas, one along the coast of southem California, a second from the Gulf of California, and the third on the 
Atlantic side from the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. 




Figure 2. Major sources of trade shells used by the early American Indians. 
a, tusk-shells. Dentalium, used for money; b, abalone shells, Haliotis, and the necklace shells, Olivella; c, Glycymeris clams for bracelets; d, olive shells, helmet shells, 
Cassis, and many others; e, large whelks, Biisyco?i, and Venus clams; f, wampum 
from the Venus clam, Mercenaria mercenaria. 

Marine shells were used primarily as ornaments. Beads of glossy 
Olivellas and Olive shells were by far the most popular throughout the estimated 1000-year span of trading. Pendants, bracelets, rattles, trumpets and 
carved shells were popular in that order. Pacific Coast shells were passed on 
from settlement to settlement to a limited extent by the early Basket Makers 
(?-50o A.D.) and, with the rise of the late Basket Makers (500-700 A.D.), 
trading increased from both the Pacific Coast and the Gulf of California. 



Man and Mollusks 9 

It was not until Pueblo times that the Atlantic trade reached the southwest 
