
3 mm. in length, fairly fragile, smooth, stubby and with the spire commonly slightly sunk or only a little elevated. Columella smooth. A chinklike umbilicus is present. Color translucent-white with yellowish brown staining. Common from shore to 90 fathoms. R. pertejiuis Mighels and R. 
turrita Moller are this species. 

Retusa sulcata Orbigny Sulcate Barrel-bubble 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

2 mm. in length. Characterized by its small size, fine axial threads, 
white color, oblong shape, flat sides and deeply sunken spire. Moderately 
common from 3 to 95 fathoms. 

Retusa canaliculata Say Channeled Barrel-bubble 

Plate 26X 

Nova Scotia to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 

4 to 6 mm. in length, solid, oblong with its spire moderately elevated, 
but almost invariably eroded. Glossy smooth, except for microscopic growth 
lines. Outer lip thin, advanced above. Columella of a single, raised, strong 
spiral ridge. Suture slightly channeled. Nucleus (when present) very small 
and pimple-like. Color white to cream, commonly with dark, rust-brown 
staining. Acteocina candei Orbigny is probably only a southern representative of this species. A common shallow-water species which was formerly 
placed in the genus Acteocina. 

Genus Pyrunculus Pilsbry 1894 
Pyrunculus caelatus Bush Bush's Barrel-bubble 

Plate 26W 

North Carohna to southeast Florida. 

3 mm. in length, pyriform in shape, rather thick and opaque-white. 
Spire concealed within a very deep pit. Rather rare from 15 to 43 fathoms. 

Genus Rhizorus Montfort iSio 
{Volvula A. Adams, not Gistel) 

Rhizorus oxytatus Bush Southern Spindle-bubble 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and Cuba. 



ACTEOCINIDAE 281 

3 to 4 mm. in length, fragile, translucent-white, spindle-shaped, with a 
sharp, long, spike-like apex. Glossy and with 4 or 5 very fine, indistinct, 
punctate, spiral lines at each end. Outer lip thin, following the curvature 
of the body whorl to just below the middle where it continues in a straight 
line. Umbilicus chink-like. Periostracum thin and pale-straw. Common from 
5 to 100 fathoms. R. bushi Dall comes from deep water off North Carolina. 
It is larger, with a long apical process and with a long, chink-like umbilicus. 
The genus Volvulella Newton 1891 is Rhizoriis. 

Rhizorus acutus Orbigny Spined Spindle-bubble 

Plate 26I 

