
I to 2 inches in size, similar to ziczac, but the deep valve has about 25 
very distinct ribs which are commonly whitish in color. Between them are 
fairly wide, tan or pinkish grooves. In the flat valve, the 25 or so ribs are 
rounded in cross-section whereas in ziczac they are flat-topped and much 
closer together. A rather uncommon species. 



PECTINIDAE 363 

Pecten tereinus Dall Tereinus Scallop 

Southern Florida and the Gulf of Mexico. 

I inch in size, quite fragile. Upper (left) valve flat, with about 20 small, 
narrow ribs; lower valve deep to moderately deep and with low, irregularly 
defined, roundish ribs. Color whitish tan, slightly translucent, with faint 
mottlings of pink near the beaks. Rarely, the flat valve may be flecked with 
brown, zigzag, fine lines. A rare species uncommonly dredged by private 
collectors in 10 to 40 fathoms. 

Genus Chlamys Roding 1798 
Chlamys sentis Reeve Sentis Scallop 

Place 34a 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

I to i^ inches in length, but not so wide (like a fan opened only 80 
degrees). Valves rather flat. One hinge ear small, the other twice as large. 
With about 50 ribs of varying sizes, each with tiny, closely set scales. There 
are 2 to 4 smaller ribs between the slightly larger ones. Color commonly 
brilliant: purple, red, vermilion, orange-red, brownish, white or mottled 
(especially near the beaks). Common under rocks below low-tide mark. 
Do not confuse with ornata, mildredae or be?iedicti. 

Chlamys inildredae F. M. Bayer Mildred's Scallop 

Plate 34c 

Southeast Florida and Bermuda. 

I to I ^ inches in length, similar to sentis and ornata, but the ribs of the 
upper valve (one without the byssal notch) 30 in number and every third 
or fourth one larger. Sculpture of rather large, erect scales set about i mm. 
apart. Ribs of lower valve about 30, in groups of 2 or 3. Exterior color 
much like sentis; interior yellowish with purple stains near the margins. 
Rare under rocks at low tide. 

Chlamys ornata Lamarck Ornate Scallop 

Plate 3 4b 

Southeast Florida to the West Indies. 

I to 1% inches in length, similar to sentis, but with about 18 high, major, 
slightly scaled ribs separated by 2 small, scaly cords on the upper valve. 
Ribs of lower valve are in 18 groups of 3#closely spaced riblets. Exterior 
ivory to yellowish cream with strong maculations of maroon or purplish. 
