
The form mainensis C. W. Johnson (Nova Scotia to Mt. Desert) differs 
in having 14 axial ribs, instead of about 22 to 25 as in the typical form, 
but specimens intergrade. The form labradorensis C. W. Johnson is smaller, 
more slender, and with up to 29 ribs per whorl. 

Fajnily STROMBIDAE 
Genus Strom bus Linne 1758 

Strombus pugilis Linne West Indian Fighting Conch 

Plate 5g 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 



174 A?7ierican Seashells 

3 to 4 inches in length. Always with spines on the last whorl, but those 
on the next to the last whorl are nearly always the largest. Shoulder of 
outer lip nearly always turns slightly upwards. Color a rich cream-orange 
to salmon-pink throughout, except for a cobalt-blue splotch of color on the 
end of the canal. Periostracum very thin and velvety. This is primarily a 
West Indian species, and apparently will not interbreed with the mainland 
species, S. alatus. An aberrant form which has club-like spines was unnecessarily named sloani Leach 1814 and pecidiaris M. Smith 1940. Percy Morris' 
colored figure (1951, pi. 19, fig. 9) is not pugilis, but alatus. 

Strombus alatus Gmelin Florida Fighting Conch 

Plate 5h 
South Carolina to both sides of Florida and to Texas. 

3 to 4 inches in length. With or without short spines on the shoulder 
of the last whorl. Shoulder of outer lip slopes slightly downward. Color 
a dark reddish brown, often mottled with orange-brown or having zigzag 
bars of color on the shiny parietal wall. Periostracum very thin and velvety. 
A very common shallow water species, especially on the west coast of Florida. 
Not found in the West Indies. Do not confuse with 5. pugilis. 

Strombus gigas Linne Queen Conch 

Plate 23a 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. Bermuda. 

6 to 1 2 inches in length. Characterized by its large size, large and flaring 
outer lip, and the rich pinks, yellows and orange shades in the aperture. Periostracum fairly thick and horny. It flakes off in dried specimens. A malform 
with flattened spines was named borridus M. Smith. A form with a deep channel at the suture occasionally turns up in the Bahamas. It was named canaliculatus L. Burry. S. gigas verrilli McGinty is a form of questionable value 
described from Lake Worth, Florida. Very common in the West Indies, 
becoming uncommon in the Florida Keys from over-fishing. Also called the 
Pink Conch. 



Strombus costatus Gmelin Milk Conch 

Plate 23b 
Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

