Cristate Limopsis 



Cape Cod to southeastern Florida. 

% inch in length, similar to sulcata but much smaller, less tufted with 
periostracum, with the inner margin of the valves having a series of strong, 
pimple-like nobs or teeth, and the outside of the shell having its radial sculpture stronger than its faint concentric sculpture. Commonly dredged off 
Florida. 

Limopsis minuta Philippi (Newfoundland to both sides of Florida) is 
very close to this species but has cancellate or beaded sculpture and attains 
a length of H inch. The shells of L. ajitillensis Dall (Florida to the Lesser 
Antilles) are % inch in size and unique in being brightly colored with pink, 
orange or yellow. 

Limopsis sulcata Verrill and Bush Sulcate Limopsis 

Plate zji 

Cape Cod to Florida, the Gulf States and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, strongly oblique, with prominent, rounded ribs which 



348 American Seashells 

are finely cut on the upper edge by short radial grooves. Inner margin of 
valves smooth. Shell dull-white. Periostracum thick, tufted, extending beyond the ventral edge of the shell. Commonly dredged in moderately shallow water. 

Fa7mly GLYCYMERIDAE 

Genus Glycymeris DaCosta 1778 

Shell heavy, usually orbicular, equivalve, porcellaneous, usually with a 
soft, velvety periostracum. Beaks slightly curved inward. Hinge heavy, with 
numerous, small, similar teeth. Ligament external, its area distinct and with 
diverging grooves. The largest muscle scar is at the anterior end. Often misspelled Glycimerts or GHcymeris. 

Glycymeris pectinata Gmelin Comb Bittersweet 

Plate 27! 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

% to I inch in size; characterized by 20 to 40 raised, radial ribs which 
have no fine radial striae or scratches on them. Color grayish and commonly 
splotched with brown. A common shallow-water species. 

Glycyjneris undata Linne Atlantic Bittersweet 

Plate 27g 

North Carolina to east Florida and the West Indies. 

2 inches in length, heavy, smoothish, except for microscopic radial 
scratches and somewhat larger concentric scratches, giving a silky appearance. There are numerous very weak and hardly discernible radial ribs separated by lines of white. Beaks at about the middle of the ligamental area. 
Color cream to white wdth bold splotches of nut-brown. Interior all white 
