Southeast Florida and the AVest Indies. 

% to % inch in length, fusiform in shape, with 8 whorls, each bearing 
a dozen sharp axial ribs which extend halfway down the whorl. Numerous 
microscopic, spiral cords present. Columella with 4 folds. Color drab pinkish gray with the upper half of the whorl bearing a wide, lighter, spiral band. 
Moderately common offshore in several fathoms. 

Mitra sidcata Gmelin Sulcate Miter 

Plate 26a 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, rather fusiform in shape, with axial ribs as in hendersoni, but without spiral threads. 4 columella folds large and dark-brown. 
Color of shell dark chocolate-brown with a narrow, white, spiral band on 
the upper half of the whorl. Moderately common below low-water line 
under rocks in sand. Do not confuse with Engina tnrhinella which has no 
columella folds. Mitra albocincta C. B. Adams is probably this species. 

Mitra idae Melville Ida's Miter 

Plate 2op 

Farallon Islands to San Diego, California. 

2 to 3 inches in length, heavy, elongate. With 3 columella folds. Color 
mauve-brown, but usually covered with a thick, finely striate, black periostracum. Uncommon offshore. 



250 American Seashells 

Family VOLUTIDAE 
Subfamily VOLUTINAE 
Genus Voluta Linne 1758 

Valuta musica Linne Common Music Volute 

Plate i3g 

Caribbean area. 

2 to 2% inches in length, heavy and with a polished finish. 3 nuclear 
whorls bulbous and yellowish. 3 postnuclear whorls plicate at the shoulder. 
Columella with about 9 evenly spaced folds. Characterized by the pinkish 
cream background and 2 to 3 spiral bands of fine lines which are dotted with 
darker brown (the musical notes). A moderately common West Indian 
species not found in the United States, but a favorite with collectors. A number of useless names have been applied to the numerous variations of this 
species. This is one of the few volutes to have an operculum. 

Voluta virescens Solander Green Music Volute 

Lower Florida Keys (rare) and the Caribbean. 

2 inches in length, moderately heavy with the aperture % the total 
length of the shell. Whorls flat-sided and with weak, axial nodules high on 
the shoulder. Numerous spiral, incised lines and fine threads present. Columella with about a dozen folds of variable sizes. Exterior dull greenish brown 
with weak, narrow, spiral bands of lighter color dotted with black-brown. 
Aperture pale cream to gray within. A rare species in southeast Florida, but 
not uncommon along the northern coast of South America. 
