grooves; embryonic shell small, smooth, bulbous and separated from the main 
shell by a constriction. This is the only species in the genus. 

Genus Clio Linne 1767 

Shell of a somewhat angular form, colorless, compressed dorso-ventrally, 
and with lateral keels. A cross-section of the anterior or open portion is thus 
always angular at the sides. There is generally a crest or ridge extending 
longitudinally along the back. Embryonic shell varies in form, but is always 
definitely separated from the rest of the shell. Cleodora Peron and Lesueur 
1 8 1 o is the same genus. 

Clio pyramidata Linne Pyramid Clio 

Figure 64k 

Worldwide, pelagic. 

16 to 21 mm. in length. No lateral keels on the posterior portion; without lateral spines. Lateral margins very divergent. No posterior transverse 
grooves. Dorsal ribs undivided. Common. C. Imiceolata Lesueur and Cleodora exacuta Gould are this species. The shell exhibits considerable variation 
in form. 

Clio cuspidata Bosc Cuspidate Clio 

Figure 641 

Atlantic and Indo-Pacific, pelagic. 

Without lateral keels on the posterior portion. Lateral spines very long. 
Common. 

Clio recurva Children Wavy Clio 

Figure 64J 

Atlantic and Indian Ocean. Warm water, pelagic. 

I inch in length, with lateral keels over its entire length. 3 dorsal ribs 
markedly projecting. A large, fragile, transparent and very exquisite species. 
This is C. balantiiim Rang. 

Clio polita Pelseneer Two-keeled Clio 

Figure 64I 

Atlantic, pelagic. 

With lateral keels over its entire length. Dorsal ribs very slightly projecting. The posterior portion of the shell is narrow. C. j ale at a Pfeffer is 
the same species. 



296 AmericaJi Seashelh 

Genus Cavolina Abildgaard 1791 

Shell squat, bulbous, horny-brown in color, characterized by a much 
constricted aperture, which is, however, very broad transversely. Sides of 
shell often prolonged into spine-like projections. Cavolinia is an alternate, 
incorrect spelling, and Hyalaea Lamarck is a synonym of this genus. 
