the narrowed, slightly twisted posterior end. Shell dull, chalky-white. Coni 



TELLINIDAE 



4^1 



centric sculpture of fine, irregular threads. Periostracum remaining on the 
margins is gray. Pallial sinus in left valve runs from the posterior muscle 
scar anteriorly toward the anterior muscle scar, but does not meet the 
latter, and then descends posteriorly to meet the pallial line about the middle 
of the lower margin of the shell. A common cold-water species, distinguished 
from balthica by its larger size, more elongate shape and pattern of the pallial 
sinus scar (see fig, 88g). 




Figure 88. American Macomas, showing interior scars, a, Macoiua brota Dall, 
3 inches (Alaska to Washington); b, M. incongnm von Martens, i inches (Alaska 
to Washington); c, M. secta Conrad, 3 inches (Pacific Coast); d, M. nasuta Conrad, 
2 inches (Pacific Coast); e, M. inis Hanley, 2 inches (Pacific Coast); f, M. calcarea 
Gmelin, 2 inches (Atlantic and Pacific Coasts); g, M. balthica Linne, i inch 
(Atlantic and Pacific Coasts); h, M. planhisciila Grant and Gale, i inch (Alaska 

to Washington). 

Macoma balthica Linne Balthic Macoma 

Figure 88g 
Arctic Seas to off Georgia. Bering Sea to off Monterey, California. 

% to 1/4 inches in length, oval, moderately compressed. Color dull 
whitish, in some with a flush of pink, and with a thin, grayish periostracum 
which readily flakes off. The shape is somewhat variable. A common intertidal and deep-water species. Compare muscle scars with those of calcarea. 

Macoma tenta Say Tenta Macoma 

Cape Cod to south half of Florida and the West Indies. 



432 Afnerican Seashelh 

/4 to % inch in length, fragile, elongate, white in color with a delicate 
iridescence on the smooth exterior. Posterior and narrower end slightly 
twisted to the left. This small, tellin-like species is very common in shallow 
water in sand. M. soiileyetiana Recluz is the same. 

Macoma limiila Dall is very similar in size and shape, although somewhat 
more elongate, and is distinguished by the finely granular external surface 
of the valves. Commonly dredged from North Carolina to Florida. 

Macoma constricta Bruguiere Constricted Macoma 

