Florida to Texas and the West Indies. 

1 to 2/4 inches in length, moderately elongate. The posterior end is 
twisted to the right and is narrowed to a blunt point. Color all white with 
concentric growth lines stained by the gray periostracum. Common just offshore. 

Macoma nasuta Conrad Bent-nose Macoma 

Figure 88d 

Alaska to Lower California. 

2 to 3% inches in length, elongate, rather compressed and strongly 
twisted to the right at its posterior end. Beaks slightly nearer the anterior 
end. Can be distinguished from other Pacific Coast species by the paUial 
sinus in the Jejt valve which reaches the anterior muscle scar. One of the 
commonest species on the west coast and lives about 6 inches below the 
surface of the mud in quiet waters from shore to 25 fathoms. 

Macoma secta Conrad White Sand Macoma 

Figure 88c 

Vancouver Island to the Gulf of California. 

2 to 4 inches in length. This is the largest Macoma in America and is 
characterized by the almost flat left valve, rather well-inflated right valve, 
and by the wide and relatively short ligament which is sunk partially into 
the shell. There is a large, oblique, rib-like extension just behind the hinge 
inside each valve. Color cream to white. Common in bays and beaches from 
shore to 25 fathoms. A small form occurs in protected waters in bays in its 
more southerly range. 

Students of the Pacific Coast fauna consider M. indentata Carpenter 
(same range) as a distinct species in which the shell is 1% inches in length, 
a little more elongate, with a more pointed posterior end, and with a slight 
indentation on the posterior ventral margin. It may possibly be a form of 
young secta. M. teniiirostris Dall is even more elongate and may also be a 
form. 



1 



TELLINIDAE 43 3 

Macoma yoldijormis Carpenter Yoldia-shaped Macoma 

Alaska to San Diego, California. 

% to %. inch in length, elongate, moderately rounded at each end and 
with a small, but distinct, twist to the right at the posterior end. Color a 
uniform, glossy, porcellaneous white. Rarely translucent with an opalescent 
sheen. Common from shore to 25 fathoms. 

Macoma carlottensis Whiteaves Queen Charlotte Macoma 

Arctic Ocean to Lower California. 
