groupings of closely related genera. However artificial, the system is extremely useful, for it permits us to arrange the species in our collections and 
our scientific reports in a logical, evolutionary and biological sequence. 

IDENTIFICATION FEATURES 

These are the many morphological features exhibited in mollusks which 
are used for identifying species and in understanding the evolutionary relationships existing between members of the higher categories, such as genera, 
families or orders. It must be realized that in some groups of shells certain 
types of characters, such as number of spines, shape of aperture or color 
markings are used to distinguish species, while in other groups these will 
prove useless and reliance may have to be put on the number of folds in the 
columella, the number of teeth in the aperture or the sculpturing on the 
operculum. These key features are pointed out in their appropriate places 
throughout this book. 

The \'erbal tools which are used in the study of mollusks are especially 
designed to assure a method as accurate as possible for telling apart the 



How to Know American Seashells 



73 




Figure 22. Various shapes of gastropods, a, globose {Lunaiia heros Say); b, capshaped (Acjnaea testitdinalis Miiller); c, fusiform and with an anal notch on the 
outer lip {Cerodrillia acestra Dall); d, sinistral or left-handed (A?itiplanes vinosa 
Dall); e, slipper-shaped (Crepidiila fomicata Linne); f, high-spired (Terebra 
nassida Dall); g, low-spired (Architectojiica peracuta Dall); h, cone-shaped 
(Conus) ; i, whorls freely coiled ( Vermicidaria spirata Philippi) ; j, spinose {Murex 
hystricimis Dall); k, spindle-shaped (FiisiJius eucosinms Dall). 



74 Ajjierican Se ash ells 

100,000 or more living, and many more fossil, species of moUusks. It is impossible to avoid using technical names for various parts of the shell and its 
animal, such as apex, spire, whorls, operculum, etc., for most of these words 
have no counterpart in everyday language. Familiarization with these few 
terms is gained easily and rapidly as trial identifications and references to the 
illustrated glossaries are made. Many of the technical terms explained below 
are not employed in this book, but they are presented for the sake of those 
readers who intend to use more advanced works. 



Gastropod Features 

Shape of shell. It is this character that is instinctively used at first when 
identifying a snail shell, and little would be gained in discussing at length 
what our photographs so clearly demonstrate. However, the shape of the 
adult shell in some species may differ radically from its young stages as may 
be seen in the illustrations of the cowries (pi. 6g) or the American Pelican 
Foot (Aporj'hais, pi. 23c). Monstrosities caused by embryological defaults 
or by injury in early life have always been a source of error in identification, 
and in certain extreme cases many species have been erroneously described 
