

112 American Se ash ells 

Subfamily CALLIOSTO MATIN AE 
Genus Calliostoma Swainson 1840 

Calliostoma euglyptum A. Adams Sculptured Top-shell 

Plate 17W 

North CaroHna to Florida and Texas. 

% inch in length, equally wide. Angle of spire about 70 degrees. Sides 
of whorls slightly concave. Periphery well-rounded. No umbilicus. Whorls 
with 6 major, well-beaded, spiral cords between each of which is a much 
smaller, weakly beaded thread. Color dull-rose, sometimes with axial flammules of cream. Nucleus pink or, when worn, dark purple. Moderately 
common in some localities from low tide mark to 3 2 fathoms. 

Calliostoma zonamestum A. Adams Chocolate-lined Top-shell 

Plate 311 

Lower Florida Keys and the West Indies. 

% to I inch in length, slightly wider. Angle of spire about 70 degrees. 
Sides of whorls flat; periphery sharp; base flat. Umbilicus deep, smooth-sided, 
white. Whorls characterized by 10 spiral, beaded threads between each of 
which there is a dark-chocolate line. Base olive with about 5 to 6 fine, brown, 
spiral lines. A very beautiful and moderately rare species much sought after 
by collectors. 

Calliostoma roseolujn Dall Dall's Rosy Top-shell 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and Yucatan. 

% inch in length, % as wide. Angle of spire about 50 degrees. Sides of 
whorls well-rounded, and with 8 to 9 crowded spiral rows of numerous neat 
beads. Columella upright, strong, with a slight twist. Color of shell light 
orange-tan to cream, often with arched splotches of darker color running 
axially across the whorl. No umbilicus. Aperture pearly-rose. Uncommon 
from 12 to 100 fathoms. 

Calliostoma pulchrum C. B. Adams Beautiful Top-shell 

North Carolina to Florida, the Gulf of Mexico, and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, % as wide. Angle of spire about 50 degrees. Sides of 
whorls straight. Characterized by a pair of strong, spiral cords just above the 
suture which are white with distantly spaced red-brown dots. Rest of whorl 
pearly-green with 6 to 7 very weak (or sometimes strong) beaded spiral 
threads. Columella almost upright, its inner side rounded, pearly. No umbilicus. Moderately common from i to 40 fathoms. 



TROCHIDAE 113 

CalHostoma jujubinuni Gmelin Jubjube Top-shell 

Plate 3p 
