end smaller than the elliptical posterior end. Shell chalky, dirty-white and 
with a coarse, varnish-like, yellowish brown periostracum. Worn shells have 
coarse, concentric, wide growth lines. The pallial sinus is larger in this species than in solidissima. Moderately common from low-tide line to 60 fathoms. The form alaskana Dall is probably a synonym. The fossil, 5. voyi 
Gabb 1868 from the Miocene or Pliocene is possibly only a subspecies. 



Spisula falcata Gould Hooked Surf Clam 

Puget Sound, Washington, to California. 

2 to 3 inches in length, rather elongate at the narrower anterior end. 
Exterior chalky with a partially worn-off, light-brown, shiny periostracum. 
Anterior upper margin of shell slightly concave. Moderately common in 
sand below low-water line. 




Figure 90. Pacific Surf Clams, a, Spisnla dolabriformis Conrad, 3 inches; b, S. 

hemphilli Dall, 6 inches; e, Spistda catiUiformis Conrad, 4 inches; d, Mactra 

califomica Conrad, i ^ inches; e, S. pla?mlata Conrad, 2 inches. 



448 American Seas he Us 

Spisula planulata Conrad Flattish Surf Clam 

Figure 906 

Monterey, California, to Lower California. 

I to 2 inches in length, % as high. Beaks almost at the middle. Anterior 
upper margin of the shell sharp-edged and straight. Exterior smooth, yellowish, shiny with the edges commonly stained with rusty-brown. Not very 
common. Found from low-water line to 36 fathoms. 



Spisula catillijormis Conrad Catilliform Surf Clam 

Figure 90c 

Washington State to Ensenada, California. 

4 to 5 inches in. length, almost as high as long. An oval shell with the 
beaks slightly nearer the anterior end. Moderately obese. Dull-ivory, commonly stained with reddish brown. With numerous, irregularly sized and 
spaced growth lines. Periostracum glossy, thin and usually worn off. Pallial 
sinus deep, running anteriorly as far back as the middle of the shell. Rather 
uncommonly washed ashore. Live specimens rare. 



Spisula dolabriformis Conrad Hatchet Surf Clam 

Figure 90a 

Lobitas, California, to Mexico. 
