when the Pacific trade was also at its zenith. 

For years archaeologists were puzzled by the absence in New Mexico 
of residue shell material which ought to be present wherever bracelets of the 
<tname>Gly cymeris</tname> clam appear. Not until 1930 were the hundreds of ancient manufacturing centers discovered along the Sonora coast of the Gulf of California. 
There the early Indians sawed out patterns and ground down the clams to a 
smooth finish. The existence of this industry in the areas where the clams live 
illustrates one of the fundamental problems of prehistoric trade where beasts 
of burden were unknown and all goods were carried on men's backs. The 
finished product was not only much lighter, but also brought a better price. 

The Mohaves used a trade route from the Pacific Coast in the vicinity 
of Los Angeles across the mountains into Nevada and Utah, and they perhaps 
have the rightful claim to the title of the "Phoenicians of the West." Several 
routes extended from the Sonora coast of the Gulf of California up to the 
Gila basin to Pecos in northwestern New Mexico. Around this area there is 
evidence that the Pacific and Atlantic trade converged during Pueblo times. 
It is quite likely that Pecos was a trading pueblo between the southwestern 
peoples and the plains tribes. 

In the midwest of the United States an entirely separate trade route existed from the Mound Builders of Illinois (Cahokia group) south to the Gulf 
of Mexico. Among the mounds of these prehistoric people the Cameo Helmet Shell {<tname>Cassis</tname>), the Fighting Conch {<tname>Strombus</tname>) and the Apple Murex 
Shell have been discovered — all species from southern Florida or the warmer 
waters of the Gulf of Mexico. 

In recent times, the dispersal of mollusks has been little short of spectacular, particularly so if we may mention in this connection the many large 
collections that have been assembled in natural history museums. For the last 
200 years there has been a steady flow of specimens to these study collections 
from all lands. Probably the largest mollusk collection in existence, that 
housed in the United States National Museum in Washington, contains over 
9,000,000 specimens and represents about 45,000 kinds. This collection is 
the result of a century of labor on the part of thousands of ardent enthusiasts who collectively have stooped to pick up mollusks in over 100,000 
localities throughout the world. 

Added to the scientific traffic of material among dozens of natural history institutions, is the constant and spirited exchange of specimens among 
thousands of private shell collectors. It is little short of miraculous that in a 
small Connecticut town one can find in an amateur collection a rare, ivorylike <tname>Thatcheria</tname> shell from 200 fathoms in Japanese waters or a 200-pound 
valve of the giant clam from the Great Barrier Reef of Australia. In a small 
cabinet of land mollusks in Boonton, New Jersey, you may find a giant Afri10 American Seashells 

can snail from the Belgian Congo or a tiny ground snail, no larger than a 
grain of rice, from the Himalaya Mountains of India. The locaHty labels 
attached to many of the shells in museums are milestones in recent history — 
Tobruk, Bizerte, Anzio — Port Moresby, Guadalcanal, Leyte Gulf — Pusan, 
the Han River, and Peking. 

Accidental dispersal of marine shells, even in large quantities, is not uncommon, and many unusual cases have been recorded in newspapers and 
scientific journals. In the days when the beautiful ear shells or abalones of 
the Cahfornian coast were used extensively for cabinet inlays, a sailing vessel 
bound for New York with a cargo of these shells went down in a storm just 
off Santiago on the south coast of Cuba. For several years, these magnificent 
shells were being cast ashore on the beaches, much to the delight of local 
collectors and small children. 

A similar case occurred in 1873 when the "Glendowra," a four-masted 
vessel, homeward-bound from the Philippine Islands on a cowrie expedition, 
was wrecked off the coast of Cumberland, England. She had on board more 
than 600 bags of Money Cowries destined for use in the African trade and, 
during a heavy fog, ran ashore near Seascale. For years these shells were 
picked up in excellent condition on the nearby beaches. Many collectors, 
