slightly toward the posterior end. Ligament not prominent and light-brown. 
Without growth stoppage lines. See T. sahnonea. Common from shore to 
15 fathoms. 

Tellina carpenteri Dall Carpenter's Tellin 

Forrester Island, Alaska, to the Gulf of California. 

Vs inch in length, moderately elongate, with a rounded anterior end 
and rather truncate posterior end. Ligament short. Color cream, whitish 
and commonly blushed with watermelon-pink inside and out. It also has 
a faint iridescent sheen. Found very abundantly in many localities in mud 
and sand from shore to 369 fathoms. 

Subgenus Scissula Dall 1900 
Tellina similis Sowerby Candy Stick Tellin 

Plate 40m; figure 86e 

South half of Florida, the Bahamas and western Caribbean. 

I inch in length, moderately elongate, moderately compressed, thin 
but fairly strong. Color opaque-white with a yellowish blush and with 6 
to 1 2 short radial rays of red. Interior yellowish with red rays or solid pink 
or yellow. A red splotch commonly occurs on the hinge in front of the 
cardinal teeth. Sculpture of concentric growth lines and numerous fine 
concentric threads njohich cross the shell a-t an oblique angle. Common on 
sand fiats. T. decora Say is the same species. 



TELLINIDAE 427 

Tellina iris Say Iris Tellin 

North Carolina to Florida, the Gulf of Mexico, and Bermuda. 

Yo inch in length, very similar to similis, and often as colorful, but very 
thin-shelled, translucent and more elongate. On the interior of the valves, 
the wavy oblique lines are evident, and there are 2 radial thickenings or 
weak, white, internal ribs at the posterior end. Common from intertidal 
flats to 20 fathoms. 

Tellina candeana Orbigny from the Lower Florida Keys and the West 
Indies commonly yellowish white and is more wedge-shaped (blunter at the 
anterior end) and, of course, has the peculiar sculpture of this subgenus. 

Subgenus Scrobiculina Dall 1900 
Tellina magna Spengler Great Tellin 

Plate 40! 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

3 to 4/4 inches in length, half as high, quite compressed and glossysmooth. Posterior dorsal region dull, bordered by a weak, radial ridge. Left 
valve glossy white, rarely faintly yellowish; right valve glossy orange to 
pinkish and microscopically cut with concentric scratches. An uncommon 
and very lovely species much sought after by collectors. Found just below 
low tide in sand. 

