
The docoglossate snails {Acmaeidae and Patellidae) have less than 
twelve teeth per row but are peculiar in that there are two to four identical 
rachidians or centrals. In the rhipidoglossate famihes {Trochidae, Fissurellidae, Neritidae) the radula is very complicated, and the very numerous laterals at the end of each row are called uncini. Among the gastropods which 
do not have a radula are the Pyramidellidae, Eidijnidae, the genus Coralliophila, adult Harpa and a few genera of nudibranchs. 




Figure 25. Types of radular teeth found in the prosobranch gastropods, a, 
rhipidoglossate [Calliostoma doliarium Holten); b, taenioglossate (Littorina irrorata Say); c, rachiglossate {Purpura patida Linne); d, toxoglossate {Comis clarki 
Rehder and Abbott); e, reduced rachiglossate {Scaphella jiinonia Shaw). All 
greatly magnified and representing only a single transverse row of teeth. 

We have figured several main types of gastropod radulae (fig. 25), but 
other examples have been included in the systematic section when they are 
of especial use in identification. It is not expected that many amateurs will 
want to prepare and examine radulae but, because so many serious private 
collectors and many biology students will find this identification tool indispensable, we have included brief instructions on the preparation of radula 
slides. 

Preparation of the radida. In large specimens, such as the whelks or 
conchs, the proboscis may be slit open from above and the round buccal 
mass removed. Occasionally, the proboscis is withdrawn far inside the animal, but it is easily located below the thin skin on the dorsum just posterior 
to the tentacles. The flesh may be torn away with the aid of small dissecting 
needles until the glistening, worm-like radula pops out. In order to remove 



80 



American Seashells 




Figure 26. Various shapes of bivalves, a, sp'mose. (Echmochauia calif ornicaDaW); 
b, quadrate (Arcopsis adamsi E. A. Smith); c, orbicular or circular (Divaricella); 
d, rostrate {Niiciilmm hamata Cpr.); e, trigonal {Crass'mella); f, fan-shaped or 
pectinate {Aeqziipecten irradiaiis miiplicostata Dall); g and h, obliquely ovate and 
aequivalve {Crenella cohmibiana Dall); i, elongate {Ensis directiis Conrad); j, 
mussel-shaped (Modiolus viodiohts Linne); k, ovate {Spisiilci poJynyrua Stimpson). 



Honjo to K?iow American Seashells 81 

the last traces of flesh, the radula may be soaked in a saturated solution of 
potassium hydroxide (KOH) for a few minutes. A solution of common lye 
will do as well. Animals whose flesh has been hardened by a preservative will 
have to be carefully boiled for a few minutes or soaked overnight in KOH 
or lye. Small specimens may be dropped whole into this alkaline solution 
if only the radula is desired. Transfer the radula successively to several 
watch-glasses of clean water in order to rid it of all traces of KOH. The 
radula may then be placed in one or two drops of water on a clean, glass 
microscope slide and, by observation under the dissecting microscope, a few 
teeth may be teased apart with fine needles. Leave some of the ribbon intact 
to show the relative position of the teeth. Add a square cover slip for study 
