entirely withdrawn. The internal pen is slender, lanceolate and very thin and 
delicate. The rather large, semi-circular fins are on the middle of the sides of 
the body. Eye with small eyelid on the lower side, none above. No sulcus 
or notch on front of the eye. 

Rossia pacifica Berry Pacific Bob-tailed Squid 

Alaska to San Diego, California. 

Total length, not including the tentacles, 3 to 4 inches. Body smooth, 
mantle flattened above and below, rounded behind. Fins large, semi-circular 
or subcordate, with a free anterior lobe, their attachment more or less obhque 
to the general plane of the body. Color in life unknown; in alcohol, reduced 
to brownish buff, heavily spotted above and in less degree below with purplish chromatophore dots, which extend even over the fins, although fewer 
on under surfaces and margins. This is the only Rossia recorded on the 
Pacific Coast, and it is rather abundant from 9 to 300 fathoms. 



480 American Seashells 

Subgenus Semirossia Steenstrup 1887 

Rossia tenera Verrill Atlantic Bob-tailed Squid 

Figure ggd 
Nova Scotia to southeastern Florida. 

3 to 4 inches in length, including mantle and longest arm. A small and 
delicate species, very soft, translucent, and delicately rose-colored when living. Internal pen small, very thin and soft. Length of each side fin is about 
% of the body, and the base of attachment of the fin is about % the bodylength. Arms unequal, the dorsal ones considerably shorter. This species is 
characterized by the larger size of the suckers located along the middle of 
the lateral arms. Commonly dredged from 18 to 233 fathoms. Formerly 
listed as Heteroteuthis tenera Verrill. R. eqiialis Voss, dredged off southeast 
Florida, differs in having the suckers on the lateral arms about equal in size. 

Fa77iily SEPIIDAE 
Genus Sepia Linne 1758 

The common cuttlefish squid of Europe is not represented In our waters, 
although in rare instances the cuttlefish bone or internal shell has been found 
in western Atlantic waters. The cuttlefish bone is an oblong, six-inch or so, 
very light slab of chalky material, rounded at one end, pointed at the other. 
It is used in the manufacture of toothpaste, and is tied to the bars of canary 
cages for the birds to peck at as a source of lime. Ink from Sepia was at one 
time a main source for durable, black writing ink. 

Family LOLIGINIDAE 
Genus Loligo Schneider 1784 

Ten-armed, with elongate, tapering, cylindrical body and large, terminal, triangular fins. Arms with two rows of suckers provided with horny, 
dentated rings; fourth left arm hectocotylized in the males. Tentacular arms 
with four rows of suckers on their clubs. Internal pen horny, lanceolate with 
its shaft keeled on the under side. The female receives the sperm sacs of the 
male upon a specially developed pad below the mouth. In the genus Lolliguncula, the sperm sacs are received upon a callused patch within the mantle 
near the left gill. 

Subgenus Loligo s. str. 
Loligo pealei Lesueur Atlantic Long-finned Squid 

