Labrador to Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Alaska to Monterey, Cahfomia. 

34 to % inch in length, very thin and fragile, translucent amber, and 
covered with a thick, brownish periostracum which is spirally ridged. Columella arched and narrow. Common offshore from 3 to 50 fathoms. V. undata 
Brown



176 American Seashells 

 {zonata Gould is the same) from the Gulf of St. Lawrence to Cape 
Cod is similar, but rarely over % inch in length, with a flattened shelf -like 
columella, and often colored with narrow, spiral bands of brown. 

Family FOSSARIDAE 
Genus Fossarus Philippi 1841 

Fossarus elegans Verrill and Smith Elegant Fossarus 

Plate 25c 

Massachusetts to North Carolina. 

2 to 3 mm. in length, turbinate in shape, with 4 whorls, chalky-white 
to gray in color and characterized by its delicate sculpturing which consists 
of 2 strong carinae on the periphery and 3 smaller ones below and a large 
one bordering the chink-like umbilicus. Between the cords are numerous, 
distinct, arched riblets. Outer lip thickened by a large varix. 2 or 3 smaller, 
former varices commonly present on the last whorl. The base of the arched 
columella is projecting. Uncommon below 70 fathoms. 

Fa7mly ERATOIDAE 

S7ibfa77iily ERATOINAE 

Genus Erato Risso 1826 

Subgenus Hespererato Schilder 1932 

Erato 77iaugeriae Gray Mauger's Erato 

Plate 2 2\v 

North Carolina to Florida and the West Indies. 

ViQ inch in length, resembling a small Marginella, but the curled-in, 
thickened outer lip has a row of about 1 5 small, even-sized teeth. Upper end 
of the outer lip is well-shouldered. Shell glossy, tan with a pinkish or yellowish undertone. Apex bulbous. Commonly dredged on either side of Florida 
from 2 to 63 fathoms. 

Erato colim7beUa Menke Columbelle Erato 

Monterey, California, to Panama. 

% inch in length, glossy-smooth, slate-gray in color with a whitish, 
thickened outer lip. Spire elevated, nucleus brown. Outer lip markedly 
shouldered above, and bearing about a dozen extremely small teeth. Siphonal 
canal stained inside with purple-brown. Not uncommon from shore to 50 
fathoms. Occasionally washed ashore with kelp weed. 

