consequently irregular in shape in many instances. 

Sphenia fragilis Carpenter Fragile Sphenia 

Oregon to Mazatlan, Mexico. 

Yi inch in length, quite elongate, with a long, narrow, compressed, 
posterior snout. Anterior half obese and rotund. Beaks fat and close together. Shell fragile, chalky, white and with fine, concentric threads, Periostracum yellowish gray, dull and usually worn off the beak area. Chondrophore in left valve large and with 2 lobes. Socket in right valve large 
and round. The posterior snout is commonly twisted. Low tide to 46 
fathoms in mud. Common. 



456 American Seashells 

Sphenia ovoidea Carpenter (Alaska to Panama) is half as large, smoother, 
and more ovoid in outline without the prominent snout. Uncommon. 

Genus Cryptomya Conrad 1849 

Somewhat like a small, fragile My a, but more fragile, and the right 
valve is larger and more obese than the left. Large chondrophore in the 
left valve is thin, flat-topped with an anterior ridge. Posterior gape and pallial 
sinus almost absent. Siphons very short. 

Crypt077jya calijormca Conrad Californian Glass Mya 

Alaska to central Mexico. 

1 to I /4 inches in length, oval, fragile, moderately obese. Right valve 
fatter. Right beak crowds slightly over the left beak. Posterior gape very 
small. Chondrophore in left valve large, tucks against a small, concave shelf 
under the right beak. Exterior chalky and with small growth lines. Periostracum dull-gray, faintly and radially striped at the posterior end. Interior 
slightly nacreous in fresh specimens. Common in sand where it may live as 
deep as 20 inches. The short siphons enter the burrows of other marine 
animals. 

Genus Flatyodon Conrad 1837 

Shell somewhat resembling a very fat Mya, with a fairly thick shell, 
rugose sculpturing and fairly small chondrophore. 

Platyodon cancel!atiis Conrad Chubby Mya 

Queen Charlotte Island, B.C., to San Diego, California. 

2 to 3 inches in length, rounded rectangular and obese. Gaping widely 
posteriorly. Shell strong, rather thick and with fine, clapboard-like, concentric growth lines. Rarely with very weak radial grooves. Chondrophore 
in left valve quite thick and arched. Beak of right valve crowds under beak 
of left valve. Shell chalky and white; periostracum thin, yellowish brown 
to rusty, and rugose posteriorly. Moderately common near beds of pholads. 
Lives in sand. 

Family CORBULIDAE 
Genus Varicorbida Grant and Ciale 193 1 

Varicorlnda operculata Philippi 1848 Oval Corbula 

North Carolina to the Gulf of Mexico and the West Indies. 

