

Figure io. Structure and layers of a clam shell {Tellma tenuis), a, Diagrammatic 

representation of a small piece of shell; b, Cross-section of shell showing the loose 

end of periostracum around the margin of the shell. (After Trueman 1942.) 



From its food supply the clam absorbs minerals into its blood system 
which are then carried to the mantle. A certain amount of shell deposition 
takes place along the thickened borders of the mantle, although a small 
amount, including pearly or nacreous material in some species, is laid down 
by other parts of this organ. The liquid secretion of lime salts becomes 
crystallized when mixed in a colloidal albumen which is also produced by 
the mantle. Several types of shelly material are laid down in definite layers, 
and the structure and composition may vary depending upon the family or 
genus of mollusks. The structure of a layer may be prismatic (made up of 
tiny, individual, closely packed prisms), foliated (layers built up of overlapping leaves), nacreous (mother-of-pearl), granular (like grains of sugar 
stuck together), crossed laniellar (a common type in which the long lamellae 
are rectangular), or it may be homogejieous with no visible structure. The 
mineral character of these layers may be calcite (2.7 times as heavy as water) 
or aragonite (2.9 times as heavy as water), both of which are forms of 
calcium carbonate. 

The shell of the tellin clam (Tellina), for instance, is made up of three 
layers of calcium carbonate and the horny periostracum. The latter con34 America}! Seashells 

sists of a very thin layer of conchiolin, probably not more than 0.003 n^"^in thickness. In other clams, such as Area, it may be many times as thick. 
It is normally secreted from a group of cells situated just under the tip of the 
mantle. The three shell layers are: (i) The outer layer of shell which 
consists of elongate radial prisms of calcite. These are arranged in concentric bands which are plainly visible on the outer surface of the shell. (2) The 
middle layer which is entirely composed of aragonite in the form of "crossed 
lamella." This specialized structure is peculiar to mollusks. (3) The inner 
layer which is a homogeneous layer of porcellaneous material. 

The Pen Shells of the genus Pi72na commonly found on the west coast 
beaches of Florida offer an excellent demonstration of prismatic structure. 
When the surface is examined with a high-powered lens, it appears to be 
honeycombed. What you see are the ends of the needle-like prisms of 
calcite which, although closely packed together, are separated from each 
other by a thin varnish of conchiolin. By examining the edge of the broken 
shell you can make out the prisms in side view. 

Most clams continue to grow in size during lifetime, but the greatest increase takes place during the first year or two. A species may show considerable variation in its manner of growth under different living conditions 
at various localities. Thus the Pacific Razor Clam (Siliqiia patula) in its 
southern range in California grows much faster and reaches a length of 
about five inches in three years. In Alaska, however, it grows more slowly, 
taking five to eight years to reach the same size. Yet the northern colonies 
continue to grow for a greater length of time, some living for fifteen to 
eighteen years and eventually reaching a length of over six inches. This 
is also true of the Pacific Cockle {Clinocardhmi nuttalli) which in ten years 
grows to three inches in length in California, but in Alaska it survives sixteen years to reach a length of five inches. 

The maximum age is known for a few species of clams. It is believed 
that the giant Tridacna clam of the Indo-Pacific lives for perhaps a hundred 
years, but this has not been confirmed by experiments or accurate calculations. The average age of the Atlantic Bay Scallop {Aeqiiipecten irradians) 
is about sixteen months, its maximum age only two or three years. The 
average age of a five-inch Pismo Clam (Tivela stidtonim) on the Pacific 
