axial rings. About 8 Eastern Pacific and perhaps half a dozen Western Atlantic species in this subgenus. 

Caecum pulcbelhnn Stimpson Beautiful Little Caecum 

Figure 370! 

Cape Cod south to North Carolina. 

About 2 mm. in length, translucent-tan and glistening when alive; 
chalky-white when dead; with about 25 to 30 fine, closely set axial rings. 
Apex with a dome-shaped plug. 

Caecum crebrictnctum Carpenter Many-named Caecum 

Figure 37m 

Monterey to Lower California. 



148 American Seashells 

6.0 mm, in length. Color pinkish brown to chalky-white with occasional darker brown mottlings. With about loo fine, squarish, closely set 
axial rings. Plug with a rather long, oblique spur. Spur sometimes eroded 
down to a small sharp pimple (form <tlawname>oregonense Bartsch</tlawname>). Irregularities occur in the expansion of the tube; sometimes there is a more rapid expansion 
toward the anterior end (forms named as species: C. pedroeiise Bartsch and 
C. barkleyense Bartsch). C. catalinense Bartsch is probably this species, since 
many of the paratypes do not have the anterior end supposedly "bulbously 
expanded," and many specimens have about loo axial rings, and not 75 as 
claimed. C. rosaniim Bartsch appears to be a very long specimen (7 mm.) 
with sharply defined rings. Common. 

Subgenus Elephantanellwn Bartsch 

3 to 5 mm. in length, white, with axial rings and longitudinal ribs. One 
species in southern California and 3 or 4 in the Western Atlantic. They 
resemble minute scaphopods, but are distinguished from them by the apical 
plug and small size of the shell. 

Caecum cooperi S. Smith Cooper's Atlantic Caecum 

Figure 37b 

South of Cape Cod to northern Florida. 

4 to 5 mm. in length, slender, glossy, opaque-white; with about 15 
strong, longitudinal ribs. Axial, raised rings are prominent near the aperture 
and sometimes give the shell a cancellate appearance at the anterior end. 
Apical plug with a fairly long, pointed prong. Common. 

Caecum carpenteri Bartsch Carpenter's Caecum 

Figure syi 

San Pedro to Lower California. 

3.5 to 4.8 mm. in length. First half to first % of shell smooth, but at 
the apertural end developing about a dozen small, sharply defined axial rings. 
Longitudinal sculpture microscopic or absent. Color translucent-white to 
gray. This species is doubtfully placed in this subgenus. 
