Figure 30c 

Aleutian Islands to Redondo Beach, California. 

% to % inch in length, similar to cucullata, but with an almost smooth 
basal edge; with numerous, much finer radial ribs, and with the internal shelf 
behind the slit reinforced by a second, straight shelf. Commonly dredged in 
mud from 10 to 75 fathoms. 

Subfainily DIODORINAE 
Genus Diodora Gray 1821 

Keyhole Limpets with the internal callus of the hole truncated and frequently minutely excavated behind; shell with its basal margin never raised 
at the ends. Central tooth of the radula wide. Compare with Fissurella. 
Diadora is a misspelling. 

Diodora cayetiensis Lamarck Cayenne Keyhole Limpet 

Plate 17m 
Virginia to south half of Florida and to Brazil. 

I to 2 inches in maximum diameter. Orifice just in front of and slightly 
lower than the apex. Many radial ribs with each fourth one larger. Color 
variable from whitish, pinkish to dark gray. Interior white or bluish gray. 
Just behind the callus of the orifice on the inside there is a deep pit. D. listeri 
is much more coarsely sculptured. A common intertidal to moderately deep 
water species. It was named by Thomas Say one month after Lamarck's 
description as D. alterjiata. 

Diodora listeri Orbigny Lister's Keyhole Limpet 

Plate 17I 

South half of Florida and the West Indies. 



FISSURELLIDAE 97 

I to 2 inches in maximum diameter. Similar to D. cayenensis but differs 
in that: (i) every second radial rib is larger; (2) concentric threads are more 
distinct and, by crossing the ribs, form little squares; (3) radial ribs often 
have nodules or scales. Color usually white, cream or gray, sometimes with 
obscure radial bands. Intertidal. Common in the West Indies. 

Diodora minuta Lamarck Dwarf Keyhole Limpet 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

/4 inch in maximum diameter, rather thin, depressed. Apex at anterior 
third of shell. Base elliptical, raised slightly at the center, so that the shell 
rests on its ends. Short front slope slightly concave, back slope convex. Orifice narrow and trilobated. Exterior shiny, with numerous, finely beaded 
radial ribs. Color white, with many of the ribs entirely or partly blackened. 
Margin very finely crenulate. Internal callus around hole frequently bounded 
by a black line. Not very common. Dredged 6 to 72 fathoms, but has been 
picked up on beaches. Do not confuse with D. dysoni which is more likely 
to be encountered, especially at sanibel Island. 

Diodora dysoni Reeve Dyson's Keyhole Limpet 

