The identification of one of the 6,000 species found in our waters is not 
always a simple task. True, by flipping through pages of illustrations we 
may spot the shell in question or at least a near relative. This method will 
sometimes bring us close enough so that reference to the text will reveal the 
correct identity. However, unless it is reahzed that many species differ only 
in seemingly slight characters and, conversely, that other species show wide 
variation in color or shape, misidentifications can result. How hopeless a task 
it would be to separate into species the various color varieties of the Common 
Coquina Shell (Donax variabilis) or the many shapes and sculptural varieties 
of the Western Dog Winkle (Thais laiitellosa) . Yet how many would not 
at first fail to notice the differences between the shell of McGinty's Cyphoma 
and the Flamingo Tongue {Cyphoma gibbosa)} But look at the obvious differences in the color patterns of the animals shown on plate 8. 

Marine mollusks are exceedingly responsive to varying ecological conditions. The presence of certain salts and minerals in the mud often dictates 
the degree to which certain colors are developed or to what extent spines 
are produced. In highly exposed areas, where surf waves pound against the 
shore, snail shells are usually devoid of delicate sculpture. These differences 
caused by environment are often difficult to distinguish from those which 
are genetic or naturally inherent characters of the species. So, too, there is 
often great genetic variation within a species, just as we have brunettes, 
blondes and redheads among humans. It is not an easy problem, even for 
the professional, to define the limits of a species, nor to say with authority 
that a certain specimen represents a "form" or is an example of a subspecies 
or even different species. 

What is a species? Volumes have been written in answer to this question, and the subject is one of continuous investigation by many biologists 
working with all forms of animals and plants. Every population of mollusks 
is inherently different, and these differences, however minute, are morphological, physiological or genetic. One need only collect a common species in 
several localities along our coast and carefully examine them in order to reach 
this conclusion. It is this factor of geographical variation, together with 
timely isolation and selection, which has been largely responsible for the 
evolutionary production of species. The development of species is a continuous and very gradual process and, when we settle upon a reasonably 
homogeneous series of populations and label them as, say, Melongena corona, 
we are merely "snapping a candid camera shot" of a species living today, one 
whose picture looked quite different several million years ago during the 
Pliocene period. Within the geographical range of this species we find a 



72 American Seashells 

series of populations on the west coast of Florida which seem to be attempting a "break-away" from the typical form, and to this geographical race the 
name Melojigena corojia perspectiva has been given. Perhaps in another 
million years, through fortuitous isolation (geographical or reproductive) 
and selection, it will merit recognition as a full species. Elsewhere throughout the range of corona, we find minor groups of variants, some that are 
individuals stunted by ecological conditions, others that are minor genetic 
variations which seem to crop up at random in all parts of Florida. These 
ecotypes, aberrations and varieties, although actors in the evolution game, do 
not warrant subspecific names. 

There have been many attempts to define a species. A very excellent 
summary of the various definitions has been published in Ernst Mayr's interesting book entitled Systematics and the Origin of Species (Columbia University Press, 1942). Mayr defines species as groups of actually or potentially 
interbreeding natural populations, which are reproductively isolated from 
other such groups by geographical, physiological or ecological barriers. Unfortunately, this biological concept of species cannot as yet be used extensively in the field of mollusks, for malacology is largely in the purely descriptive and cataloging stages, and the majority of species being described today 
are still based on the old-fashioned morphological species concept. 

While the species is considered by some people as an objective entity in 
nature, nearly everyone agrees that a genus is merely a convenient and 
arbitrary grouping of closely related species. This is also true of many higher 
categories such as the subfamily and family which are merely convenient 
