from low-tide line to 40 fathoms. On mud, gravel or backs of abalones. 

Family CONIDAE 
Genus Conus Linne 1758 

Conus spurius atlanticus Clench Alphabet Cone 

Plate 14P 

Florida and the Gulf of Mexico. 

2 to 3 inches in length; spire slightly elevated in the center. Top of 
whorls smooth, except for tiny growth lines. Color white with spiral rows 
of orange-yellow squares. Interior of aperture white. A rather common and 
attractive species found in shallow water. True spurius spurius Gmelin from 
the Bahamas and Antilles differs only in having the spots merging into occasional mottlings. Another race occurs off Yucatan in which the spots are 
sometimes smaller and a rather dark bluish purple. 

Conus aureofasciatus Rehder and Abbott Golden-banded Cone 

Plate i4g 

Tortugas to off Yucatan, Mexico. 

2 to 3 inches in length, similar in shape to spurius, although sometimes 
more slender. Characterized by several spiral bands of light-yellow. Dredged 
in several fathoms of water. Uncommon to rare. It is possible that this species may be only a freak color form of spurius. 

Conus daucus Hwass Carrot Cone 

Plate 14a 

Both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

I to 2 inches in length. Spire rather low, sometimes almost worn flat. 
Shoulder even and sharp. Spire with small, spiral threads. Color deep, solid 
orange to lemon-yellow, rarely with a lighter band. Spiral rows of minute 



CONIDAE 261 

brown dots sometimes present on sides. Interior of aperture pinkish white. 
Color of spire is orange with large white splotches. Uncommon below 15 
feet of water. 

Conus juliae Clench Julia's Cone 

Plate 14b 

Off northeast Florida to Tortugas. 

1% to 2 inches in length. Spire moderately high, flat-sided and with 
about 10 to 12 whorls. Shoulders of whorls slightly rounded; sides nearly 
flat. Color a pale pinkish brown to orangish with a moderate and indistinct 
band of cream or white at the mid area. This is overlaid with a series of fine 
spiral, broken lines or dots of brown. Spire whitish with axial, zigzag, reddish 
brown streaks. A choice collector's item. Named after Mrs. WiUiam J. 
Clench, a great contributor to the cause of malacology. 

