Interior usually white. Compare with mildredae. An uncommon and favorite 
collector's item. 



364 American Seashells 

<tname>Chlamys benedicti Verrill and Bush</tname> Benedict's Scallop 

South half of Florida and the Gulf of Mexico. 

Rarely over % inch in length. Very similar to sentis, but with a greater 
range of colors and having 2 color variations not found in sentis (pure lemonyellow or mottled with chalk-white zigzag stripes). With about 22 strong 
ribs alternating with weaker ribs, total about 45. Shorter ear has a sharp, 
90-degree corner and bears prominent spines, while in se7itis it is more rounded 
or considerably more than 90 degrees and is smoother. Hinge margin of 
longer ear has small projecting scales. Color pink, pinkish red, light purple 
or yellow, and commonly with pronounced whitish zigzag markings. A 
moderately common species usually misidentified as young sentis or vniscosa. 

<tname>Chlcniiys imbrieata Gmelin</tname> Little Knobby Scallop 

Plate 34f 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

1 to I % inches in length, but not quite so wide. Lower valve (the one 
with the byssal notch) slightly convex. Upper valve almost flat and fairly 
thin. Ribs 8 to 10, uncommonly with smaller cords between. They have 
prominent, cup-shaped, delicate, distantly spaced scales. Color dirty-white 
or pinkish with small, squarish, red or purplish blotches. Interior yellowish, 
commonly with purplish stains. Moderately common. 

<tname>Chlamys bastata hastata Sowerby</tname> Pacific Spear Scallop 

Plate 34) 

Monterey to Newport Bay, California. 

2 to 1V2 inches in size; without microscopic reticulations; right valve 
(with byssal notch) with about 18 to 21 primary, strongly spined ribs which 
have 5 to 7 much smaller, weakly spined, secondary ribs in between left 
valve with i o to 11 distantly spaced, strongly scaled primary ribs, with 1 2 to 
16 very weak, beaded secondary ribs in between. This is not so common 
as the subspecies hericia, and is much more colorful, commonly being bright 
orange, red or lemon. 

<tname>Chlamys hastata hericia Gould</tname> Pacific Pink Scallop 

Plate 34k 

Alaska to San Diego, California. 

2 to 2% inches in size; without microscopic reticulations; right valve 
(with byssal notch) with about 18 to 21 primary, moderately scaled ribs 
which have 5 to 7 much smaller spined ribs between; left valve with about 
10 to II primary, spined ribs which have a single, rounded, almost as large 



