Colus spitzbergensis Reeve Spitzbergen Colus 

Figure 5ih 

Bering Sea to Washington State. Arctic Seas to Gulf of St. Lawrence. 

2/4 to 3 inches in length, rather light-shelled, and with 6 fairly wellrounded whorls. Spire long and of about 30 to 35 degrees. Siphonal canal 
short; columella almost straight. Outer lip flaring, slightly thickened. Sculpture of numerous (12 to 14 between sutures) low, flat-topped, small, equally 
sized spiral cords. Chalk-gray with a reddish to yellowish brown, thin periostracum. Commonly dredged from i to 142 fathoms. 

Genus Nepumea Roding 1798 
Neptunea decevicostata Say Brown-corded Neptune 

Plate 23s 

Nova Scotia to Massachusetts. 

3 to 4H inches in length, rather heavy. Characterized by its grayishwhite, rather smooth shell which bears 7 to 10 very strong, reddish-brown, 
spiral cords. The upper whorls show 2 to 3 cords. There is an additional 
band of brown just below the suture. A common cold-water species found 
offshore, but occasionally washed up on New England beaches. 



230 American Seashells 

Neptunea ventricosa Gmelin Fat Neptune 

Plate 24s 

Arctic Ocean and Bering Sea. 

3 to 4 inches in length, heavy, with a large, ventricose body whorl. 
Axial ribs or growth lines coarse and indistinct, rarely lamellate. Shoulders 
sometimes weakly nodulated. Spiral cords absent or very weak. Color a 
dirty-brownish white. Aperture white or flushed with brownish purple. 
Moderately common offshore. This is Chrysodomus satura Martyn and its 
several poor varieties. 

Neptunea pribiloffensis Dall Pribiloff Neptune 

Plate 241 

Bering Sea to British Columbia. 

4 to 5 mches in length, similar to N. lyrata, but with a lighter shell, with 
weaker and more numerous spiral cords, and with more numerous and 
stronger secondary spiral threads. Outer lip more flaring and the siphonal 
canal with more of a twist to the left. Fairly commonly dredged from 50 to 
100 fathoms. 



Neptunea lyrata Gmelin Common Northwest Neptune 

Plate 24q 

Arctic Ocean to Puget Sound, Washington. 

4 to 5 inches in length, % as wide, solid, fairly heavy. With 5 to 6 
