as new. 

Parts of the shell. As the typical gastropod mollusk grows, it adds to 
the spiral shell and produces turns or ivhorls. The first few whorls, or nuclear whorls, are generally formed in the tgg of the mollusk and usually 
differ in texture, color and sculpturing from the postnuclear whorls which 
are formed after the animal has hatched. When the nuclear whorls are 
marked off from the remainder of the whorls they are often referred to as 
the protoconch. The last and largest whorl which terminates at the aperture 
of the shell is known as the body ivhorl. The periphery is an imaginary 
spiral area on the outside of the whorl, usually halfway between the suture 
and the base or at a point where the whorl has its greatest width. The Giant 
Atlantic Pyram (pi. 4q) shows a narrow color band on the periphery of the 
last whorl. The w^horl just before the last whorl often has distinctive characters and has been differentiated by the name penultimate njohorl. Above 
this the succeedingly smaller earlier whorls in the pointed apex of the shell 
are known as apical ^whorls. The rate of expansion of the growing whorls 
and the degree to which the succeeding whorls "drop" determine the shape 
of the shell. The sides of the whorls may be fiat, globose, concave, channeled or ribbed. The juncture of each whorl against the other forms a suture 
at the top or above the shoulder of each whorl. The suture may be very 
fine — a mere tiny, spiral line — or it may be deeply channeled (see Busy con 
canaliculata, the Channeled Whelk, pi. 2 3n). Sutures may be wavy, irregular, slightly or deeply indented or impressed. 



Honv to Know Ajjierican Se ash ells 



IS 



The anterior end of the shell is that end which is in front when the animal is crawling. The aperture, the siphonal canal (when present), the head 
and the tentacles of the mollusk are at this end. The posterior end is the 
opposite, where the apex and nuclear whorls are located, hence it is sometimes referred to as the apical end. When we speak of the posterior side of 
a rib or a bar of color we mean the side nearest to the apex or away from 
the anterior end of the mollusk. The total distance between the two ends 
of the shell is known as the length, although this measurement is often called 
the height. 



■hlVICl.£(\(<. VlHORUS 



pftftveTAL. CALLUS 



COLUI*\eLl-f\ 
SPlRftV- CORDS 



peRVPHtRY 



BODY WrtOftU 

