outline. Except when attacking or escaping, the squid swims less strenuously, 
using the caudal fin as a balancing organ. 

There are few sights as interesting as that of squid engaged in capturing 
and devouring young mackerel. During the summer this chase may be 
observed from certain wharves in New England. In attacking mackerel 
the squid darts backward among the fish with the velocity of an arrow, and 
then turns obliquely to one side and seizes a fish, which is almost instantly 
killed by a bite in the back of the neck by the squid's sharp beak. The bite 
is always made in the same place, cutting out a triangular piece of flesh, and 
is deep enough to penetrate to the spinal cord. The attacks are not always 
successful and may be repeated a dozen times before one of the wary fish 
can be caught. Between attacks a squid may suddenly drop to the bottom 
and, resting on the sand, change its color to that of the sand so perfectly 
as to be almost invisible. Ordinarily, when swimming, it is thickly spotted 
with red and brown but, when darting among the mackerel, it appears translucent and pale. The schools of young mackerel often move close to shore 
where the water is shallow and offers more protection. In their eagerness 
to capture fish, the squid frequently force themselves up on the beach where 
they perish by the hundreds. At such times they often discharge their ink 
in large quantities. 

Many species of octopuses and squid possess an ink sac and, in moments 
of great excitation they may expel a large cloud of black or brown liquid 
through the siphon. The ink is of a caustic nature and, in addition to its 
use as a "smoke screen," it is believed to be distasteful to hungry fish. Two 
sources of sepia ink are a species of squid found along the southeastern 
coast of China and another found in the Mediterranean Sea. 

Many geologic eras ago the cephalopods possessed large and showy shells. 
Today, however, shells produced by this class are a rarity. The most spectacular shell is found produced by the Indo-Pacific Chambered Nautilus, 
<tname>Naiitihis p077ipiliiis</tname>. On our shores, the small, white, spirally coiled shell of 
<tname>Spirilla</tname> is frequently encountered on southern beaches. The three-inch-long 
<tname>Spirula</tname> squid which produces this shell is a denizen of deep water. In other 
squid the internal shell has been reduced to a simple slab of chalky material 
(the cuttlefish bone fed to canaries) or, in the case of the <tname>Loligo</tname> squid, to 
a thin, elongate shaft of transparent, horny material. 

By an odd turn of fate, squid are heavily preyed upon by adult cod, 
mackerel and other fish, and no doubt some young mackerel which have 
escaped by a tentacle's breadth have lived to devour later their would-be 
assassins. Squid are taken in large quantities in nets and weirs each year, and 
they constitute one of the main fish baits on the Grand Banks. They are 



Lives of the Other Mollusks 49 

frequently eaten by peoples of the Mediterranean area and the Orient but to 
a much lesser extent by Americans. 

In contrast to the speedy squid, the octopus is relatively a slow-moving 
creature, although it can swim away at a fairly rapid rate by using the same 
water-jet system of propulsion; it lacks the caudal fins of the squid. The 
underside of the eight arms of the octopus are studded along their entire 
lengths with cup-like disks or acetabula. When a sucker is pressed against 
any smooth surface, the center is withdrawn to create a vacuum which ensures a powerful attachment. An octopus can "tentacle" along with remarkable agility and at night may even take to short excursions out of water. I 
have known of an octopus kept in a small aquarium in Bermuda to push the 
lid off the top, crawl down the table and off the veranda in an attempt to 
reach the ocean. It crawled more than a hundred feet toward the sea before 
it succumbed and was attacked by ants. There have been many authentic 
