teeth. Found on brown kelp. Fairly common. 

Genus Polycera Cuvier 1817 

Frontal margin with finger-like processes. Finger-like processes bordering branchial plumes. Center of radula naked, flanked by 2 lateral teeth and 
several uncini. 

Polycera atra MacFarland Orange-spiked Doris 

Plate i6e 

Monterey to San Diego, California. 

^/4 to I inch in length. The blue-black lines shown in our figure are 
usually thinner and less conspicuous. 8 gill plumes. Common on brown 
algae. 9 to 10 rows of radular teeth, dark-amber; 2 pleurals, 3 to 4 uncinal 
teeth. 

Family ONCHIDORIDAE 
Genus Acanthodoris Gray 1850 

Body Dorid-like with a furry back. Labial disk armed with minute 
hooks. Center of radula naked; first pleural tooth large, external pleurals 4 
to 8, small. Glans penis armed. Vagina very long. 

Acanthodoris pilosa Abildgard Pilose Doris 

Plate 15b 

Arctic Seas to New Haven, Connecticut. Alaska. 

% to 1% inches in length. Semi-transparent. Color variable, ranging 
from pure white to yellowish white, canary-yellow, yellowish brown, grayspeckled, purple-brown and black. Back covered with soft, slender, conical, 
pointed papillae, which give it a hairy appearance. Rhinophores long, its 
club bent backwards and with 19 to 20 leaves. Sheath denticulate. Branchial 
plumes 7 to 9, large and spreading, tripinnate, transparent. A number of 
color forms have been described from Alaska by Bergh and from New England by A. E. Verrill. Radula with about 27 rows. No central tooth, 4 
pleurals on each side. Moderately common at low tide, sometimes found 
out of water, 



306 AiJierican Seashells 

Acanthodoris brunnea MacFarland Pacific Brown Doris 

Monterey Harbor, California. 

% inch in length, somewhat like our figure of A. pilosa (pi. 15b). Somewhat broader at the anterior end. Brown tubercles on back rounder, fewer, 
not as pointed. Back brown with flecks of black and with small spots of 
lemon-yellow between the tubercles. Rhinophores deep blue-black, tipped 
with yellowish white. Club with 20 to 28 obliquely slanting leaves. 7 branchial plumes, wide-spreading, bipinnate. About 10 tubercles are included 
within the rosette, 4 or 5 of them large and enclosing the anal papilla. Anterior margin of back is yellow. 24 to 28 rows of radular teeth. No centrals. 
First pleural large, with 14 to 19 denticles on the inner border. 6 to 7 other 
smaller pleural teeth. Dredged 30 to 60 fathoms. 



Genus Adalaria Bergh 1878 
Adalaria proxhim Alder and Hancock Yellow False Doris 
