traveling along in full view. 

It is perhaps appropriate here to mention the dangers of over-collecting 
in certain localities. This is to be avoided particularly if certain species have 
taken several seasons to build up their populations even to a moderate size. 
By leaving at least most of the immature specimens and perhaps one or two 
adults, you will assure yourself of good collecting at the same spot at a later 
date. While it is unreasonable to expect people to roll back the rocks they 
have overturned, some collectors do this in order to obtain additional specimens on the next visit. Once destroyed by sunlight and air, protective algae 
and sponges need many months to grow back. However, the blame for 
extinction of many beautiful mollusks at Lake Worth, Florida, and in many 
other places rests not with greedy collectors but with super-drainage experiments, city pollution and construction work. 

Keeping accurate locality data with specimens you have collected is 
most essential. Many private collections are eventually left to museums for 
the enjoyment and use of future generations. Today's crowded museums 



62 American Se ash ells 

must rightfully dispose of specimens which have no data and are therefore 
of no scientific value. Large and beautiful collections representing much 
time and cost would have been of inestimable value to science had someone 
only taken the time to record where each specimen was collected. "Australia," "Hawaii" or "California" is not enough. An example of good data 
would be: "North end of Captiva Island, Lee County, Florida. Leo Burry, 
collector. July 4, 1952." Many careful collectors add interesting notes concerning the depth of water, type of bottom, abundance, and so forth. A rare 
shell in perfect condition, correctly identified and with accurate data, is 
almost worth its weight in gold. 

PREPARING SHELLS FOR THE COLLECTION 

The beauty and value of a collection depends largely on the manner in 
which specimens are cleaned and the methods in which the shells are arranged 
and housed. The majority of snails and clams, whether they be marine, land 
or fresh-water, may be cleaned of their animal soft parts by merely boiling 
in fresh or salt water for about five minutes. The meat may be extracted 
with a bent safety pin or icepick, depending on the size of the specimen. 
Shells which have a highly glossed or enameled finish, such as the cowries 
and olives, should never be thrown directly into boiling water. Start them 
in warm water, bring slowly to a boil, and then let cool gradually. Any rapid 
change in temperature will crack or check the polished surface. Save the 
horny operculum or trapdoor of those species that have them. When the 
shell is dry, a plug of cotton will hold the operculum in the aperture. 

Many species are difficult to clean even when the boiling system is used. 
Usually the tip end of the animal's body remains in the shell of such genera 
as <tname>Terebra</tname>, <tname>Vasum</tname> and <tname>Xenophora</tname>. Vigorous shaking or syringing with a 
powerful blast of tap water will get most out. Filling the shell half full of 
water and setting it out in the shade for a day or so with an occasional syringing will help. If odors still persist a few drops of formaldehyde introduced 
into the shells, plus a cotton stopper, will eliminate the objections. 

In the Pacific Islands most collectors bury their shells alive a few inches 
under soft, dry sand. In a few weeks the specimens are dug up and washed. 
The sand must be sifted for smaller shells and the opercula. Some people 
who do not object to flies set their shells upside down in the sand and allow 
blowfly larvae or maggots to clean out the meat in a week or so. Vigorous 
rinsing of the shell is all that is necessary. 

Many delicate snails, including most land species and small fragile clams, 
