Genus Aldisa Bergh 1878 
Aldisa sangtunea Cooper Blood-red Doris 

Monterey Bay to Point Lobos, California. 

Y2 inch in length. In form, superficially resembling our figure of Archidoris mo7itereyensis (pi. i6h), but bright-scarlet to light-red, sprinkled everywhere with very minute, black spots. Characterized by 2 or 3 very large, 
oval spots of black on the back, Rhinophores similar in form, with 12 to 
15 leaves in the clavus. Branchial plumes 8 to 10, simply or irregularly bipinnate. Radula with 70 rows of teeth, each row with 70 to 100 teeth which 
are long, slender and with small, swollen bases. Not uncommon in rock 
pools. 

Subfamily CADLININAE 

Labial armature lamelliform, almost annulate, of extremely small hooks. 
Middle of radula with a denticulated tooth. External margin of pleural teeth 
serrate. 

Genus Cadlina Bergh 1879 

Characters of the subfamily. The glans penis is armed with a series of 
hooks. Usually the animal is from i to 2 inches in length. 



302 American Seashells 

Cadlina laevis Linne White Atlantic Doris 

Arctic Seas to Massachusetts. Europe. 

I inch in length, similar to our figure of A. no bills (pi. i6c), but a pure, 
waxy, semi-transparent white. Back with numerous very small, obtuse, 
opaque-white tubercles. An irregular row of white or sulfur-yellow, angular spots located down each side near the margin of the back. Rhinophores 
opaque-white or yellowish, with 12 or 13 leaflets, surmounted by a short, 
blunt point. Branchial plumes of 5 imperfectly tripinnate, transparent white 
plumes. Radula with 50 to 70 rows of teeth. 29 to 30 pleural teeth on each 
side of the central tooth, the latter with 3 to 4 denticles on each side of the 
center hook. Locally uncommon. C. repanda Alder and Hancock, C. obvelata Miiller and C. planulata Gould are this species. 

Cadlina flavomaciilata MacFarland Yellow-spotted Doris 

Pacific Grove to San Diego, California. 

% inch in length. Characterized by the 2 rows of lemon-yellow spots 
borne upon low tubercles. Rhinophores with 10 to 12 leaves in its club. 
Branchial plumes small, 10 to 11, either simple pinnate or bipinnate. Radula 
with about 77 rows of teeth, with 23 pleural teeth on each side of the central 
tooth which has 4 to 6 equal-sized denticles. All times of the year in small 
numbers in rocky tide pools. 

Cadlina marginata MacFarland Yellow-rimmed Doris 

British Columbia to Monterey Bay, California. 

1% inches in length, similar to our figure of A. nobilis (pi. i6c), but 
covered everywhere with low, yellow-tipped tubercles surrounded by a narrow ring of white and forming the center of a clearly marked polygonal 
area. Ground color a translucent yellowish white. There is a distinct narrow 
band of lemon-yellow around the margins of the mantle and the lateral and 
posterior edges of the foot. Rhinophores with 16 to 18 leaves in the clavus. 
Branchial plumes 6, bipinnate, sheath with yellow-tipped tubercles on the 
