sinus, and (contrary to reports) is a more fragile shell. Its anterior end is 



TELLINIDAE 421 

pointed and slightly uplifted. Interior blushed with mottlings of chestnut 
to purplish brown. 

Rupellaria carditoides Conrad Hearty Rupellaria 

Vancouver, B.C., to Lower California. 

1 to 2 inches in length. Very variable in shape, usually oblong; in some, 
squat and almost orbicular. Shell white to grayish white and very chalky in 
texture. Concentric growth lines quite coarse and irregular. Radial sculpture 
of pecuhar, fine, scratched lines crowded together, but worn away in some 
specimens. Fairly common. Found boring into hard rock. Nepionic shell 
usually oblong. R. californica Conrad is the same. 

Subfamily COOPERELLINAE 
Genus Cooperella Carpenter 1864 

Hinge plate narrow, with 2 right and 3 left short, divaricating cardinals 
under the beaks. The left central cardinal is always, and the others commonly, split or bifid. No laterals. Muscle scars small and oval. Pallial line 
narrow, the sinus long. 

Cooperella subdiaphana Carpenter Shiny Cooper's Clam 

Southern California to Lower California. 

About % inch in length, oval-oblong, opaque-white with a brilliant gloss 
and slight opalescence. Fragile. Outer surface with slightly wavy concentric 
growth lines. Ligament tiny, short, set just behind the beaks and visible externally. Moderately common offshore to 40 fathoms. 

Superfamily TELLINACEA 

Family TELLINIDAE 

Genus Tellina Linne 1758 

Subgenus Tellina s. str. 

Tellina radiata Linne Sunrise Tellin 

Plate 4oe 

South Carolina to south half of Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 4 inches in length, elongate, moderately inflated. Characterized by 
its oily smooth, glistening surface and rich display of colors — either creamywhite or rayed with pale-red or yellow. Interior flushed with yellow. The 
beaks are usually tipped with bright-red. Uncommon in Florida but abundant 
in the West Indies. 



422 American Seashells 

Tellina laevigata Linne Smooth Tellin 

