Dall, and its subspecies catal'mensis Oldroyd. The latter group has longer 
spines, longer siphonal canal and the ribs are only on the periphery of the 
early whorls. 

Boreotrophon orpheus Gould Orpheus Trophon 

Figure 46e 

Alaska to Redondo Beach, California. 

% to I inch in length, resembling pacificus but with a spire Yi the length 
of the shell, and with 3 strong, but small, spiral cords showing in the spire, 
but with about the same number and type of axial ribs. It resembles an immature stuarti, but has more and smaller ribs and its whorls are not so sharply 
shouldered on top nor so strongly cancellate in the spire. Moderately common from 1 2 to 80 fathoms. 

Genus Trophonopsis Bucquoy, Dautz. and Dollfuss 1882 
Trophonopsis lastiis Dall Sandpaper Trophon 

Bering Sea to Lower California. 



MURICIDAE 



209 



1% to 2 inches in length; spire half the length of the grayish white shell; 
6 whorls with numerous, indistinct to moderately well-developed, rounded 
ribs and more numerous, small, frequently scaled, spiral cords — all of which 
gives the shell a rough, sandpaper feel. Whorls in spire shouldered slightly. 
Aperture enamel-white. References in 1937 and earlier to Trophon tejmisculptus Carpenter are this species. The true temiiscidptiis is an Ocenebra. 



Hexagonal Murex 

Plate 2 5h 



Genus Muricopsis Bucquoy, Dautz. and DoUfuss 1882 
Muricopsis hexagona Lamarck 

Florida Keys and the West Indies. 

I to I /4 inches in length, elongate, heavy, with a high spire, and sharply 
spinose on each of the 7 axial ribs on each whorl. Exterior chalk-white or 
tinted with orange-brown. Aperture white. A moderately common reef 
species. The genus Muricidea Morch 1852, not Swainson 1840, is the same 
as this genus. 




Figure 47. Oyster Drills of the Atlantic Coast, a, Eiipleiira stimpsoni Dall; b, 
Eiipleiira caudata Say; c, Eiipleiira sidcidevtata Dall; d, Urosalpinx pernigata Conrad; e, Urosalpinx chierea Say; f, Pseiidoneptunea vndtangida Philippi; g, Muricopsis ostreanim Conrad. All about i inch in length. 
