may be placed in fresh water overnight and then syringed or picked clean. 
This system works well with <tname>Dentalium</tname>, <tname>Janthina</tname>, <tname>Marginella</tname>, <tname>OHvella</tname>, <tname>Trivia</tname> 
and <tname>Cyphoma</tname>, although the last four genera may require a two-day soak. BiCollecting American Seashells 63 

valves are usually the easiest to boil and clean. Allow your pairs to dry in 
the flat, open or "butterfly" position, as this will permit ready inspection of 
the hinge teeth for identification purposes. 

There are many minute species which obviously cannot be boiled and 
picked clean. Shells less than one third of an inch may be soaked in seventy 
percent grain alcohol, and then placed in the sun to dry thoroughly. This 
strength of alcohol is also ideal for pickling squid, octopus or the soft parts 
of other mollusks. Isopropyl alcohol may be used, but it is best to use this 
at a fifty percent strength. Never use formaldehyde (or formalin) to preserve mollusks. The shell turns soft, loses color and often crumbles away in 
a few months. 

When a shell has been cleaned of its soft parts, it must next be prepared 
for the collection. Most shells are ready for display and most attractive in 
their natural state. However, a large number of gastropods, whose beauty 
is hidden by coral and algal growths, are in need of a certain amount of "face 
lifting." A stifl" brush, soapy water and diligence will usually suffice. Many 
collectors soak specimens in a strong chlorine solution for a few hours. This 
removes a great part of the unsightly growths and will not damage the shell. 
It will also remove the natural periostracum or thin corneous layer on the 
outside of the shell. However, when you have several specimens to add to 
your collection, it is best to keep at least one in its natural state. 

Very few expert collectors use acid in treating shells, since this often 
gives specimens a very unnatural, although colorful, sheen. It is used occasionally to remove limy deposits and to brighten up old specimens. Commercial dealers dip the Pink Queen Conch, for example, for five or ten seconds in a vat of one part muriatic acid to four parts of water and then rinse 
in fresh water. Shells may be dipped with forceps in full strength oxalic or 
muriatic acid for r^vo seconds and then immediately put under running cold 
water. This may be repeated until the desired effect is obtained, but it should 
be pointed out that any acid treatment ruins most shells for scientific study. 

Polishing abalone shells and cutting cross-sections of larger shells require 
special equipment such as electrically run burring wheels and circular diamond cutters. A visit to a shell factory will be of profit to those wishing to 
undertake this interesting hobby. 

THE SHELL COLLECTION 

Although seashells are easy to keep since they do not deteriorate and 
generally do not fade in color like many insects, they present many special 
problems in housing because of their many sizes and shapes. There are three 
general types of collections — the knickknack shelf, the display arrangement 
and the study collection. 



^4 American Seashells 

The first of these is usually the result of a summer's random beach collecting by the novice or a living-room auxiliary to the mam collection. Many 
important private collections have started in this manner. 

The display collection for museums, libraries, clubs or even the home 
is limited by the pocketbook and by the type of secondhand display cabmets 
that can be afforded. Little more is needed than common sense "tent.on to 
matters of good artificial lighting, attractive but neutral background, neat 
hb Ing choice of specimens and especially the avoidance of overcrowdmg. 
The exhibit should L designed for ,ts eye-appeal as well -----One has a wide choice of themes-a selection of local shells, molusks of 
"conomc or medical interest, shells of odd habits, examples of colors and 
