Often washed ashore with floating sargassum weed, and frequently dredged in 
a dead condition at any depth. This is L. bombix Kiener and L. bomhyx 
"Rang." 

Subjmnily CERITHIOPSINAE 
Genus Cerithiopsis Forbes and Hanley 1849 

Cerithiopsis greeni C. B. Adams Green's Miniature Cerith 

Plate 1 9V 

Cape Cod to both sides of Florida. 

Ys inch in length, elongate, slightly fusiform in shape, glossy-brown 
in color. 9 whorls, the first 3 embryonic, translucent-brown and smooth, 
the remainder with 2 to 3 spiral rows of large, glassy beads connected by 
weak spiral and axial threads. Columella arched in young specimens, but 
straight and continuous with the short siphonal canal in adults. Lip in adults 
smoothish, slightly flaring. C. virginica Henderson and Bartsch and C. vanhyningi Bartsch are possibly variations of this species. Common in shallow 
water. 

Subgenus Laskeya Iredale 191 8 
Cerithiopsis subulata Montagu Awl Miniature Cerith 

Plate 19W 

Massachusetts to the West Indies. 

/4 to % inch in length, rather strong, slender and with about 14 whorls. 
Sides of whorls flattish, with 3 rows of distinct, raised, roundish beads (about 
28 per row on the last whorl). There may be faint axial riblets connecting 
the beads. The middle row of beads may be reduced to a mere thread in 
specimens from southern localities. Base concave and with fine axial growth 
lines. Color chocolate-brown, with the beads a lighter shade. Some shells 
become eroded and colored an ash-gray or chalky-brown. C. emersoni 
C. B. Adams is probably a synonym. Common from i to 33 fathoms. 

Cerithiopsis carpenteri Bartsch Carpenter's Miniature Cerith 

Crescent City, California, to Ensenada, Mexico. 

% to /4 inch in length, dark chocolate-brown with whitish beads. 
Whorls in spire with 3 spiral rows of evenly sized, glassy, rounded beads. 



158 American Se ash ells 

Base of shell with 2 large, smoothish, spiral cords. C. grippi Bartsch and 
C. pedroana Bartsch are possibly dwarf forms of this species whose beaded 
sculpture is more variable than is generally suspected. 

Genus Seila A. Adams 1861 

Shell small, very slender, whorls flat-sided, nucleus glassy-smooth and 
of about 3 whorls. Small, short siphonal canal. Sculpture of strong spiral 
cords between which lie microscopic axial threads. 

Seila adamsi H. C. Lea Adams' Miniature Cerith 

