
Pelagic octopods in which the dorsal arms of the female are broadlyexpanded into glandular membranes that secrete and hold a delicate, calcareous shell for containing the eggs. The males are considerably smaller 
than the females, do not have a shell, and the third right arm is modified into 
a detachable copulatory organ which persists separately for a certain length 
of time in the mantle cavity of the female. 

Argonauta argo Linne Common Paper Nautilus 

Plates ic; 26y 

Worldwide in warm waters. 

4 to 8 inches in length, quite fragile, laterally compressed with a narrow 
keel, numerous sharp nodules which in the early part of the shell are stained 
with dark purplish brown. Rest of shell opaque, milky-white. Occasionally 
washed ashore. A. americana Dall is the same. 

Argonauta hians Solander Brown Paper Nautilus 

Figure gpe, f 

Worldwide in warm waters. 

Similar to A. argo, but smaller, much "fatter" with a rapidly broadening 
keel that bears larger and fewer nodules. Color brownish white with darker 
stains on the early part of the keel. Uncommonly washed ashore. 

Family TREMOCTOPODIDAE 
Genus Tremoctopus Delle Chiaje 1829 

Tremoctopus violaceus Delle Chiaje Common Umbrella Octopus 

Pelagic in warm waters. Worldwide. 

Total length, including the arms, 3 to 6 feet. Deep purplish red in color. 
Characterized by the long skin webs between the four dorsal arms, and the 
two large holes in the body near the base of the third arm and in front of 
the eyes. The species is gregarious, and is occasionally washed ashore on the 
east coast of Florida. 

Family OCTOPODIDAE 

Genus Octopus Lamarck 1798 

There are only five valid species of littoral Octopus so far recorded 
along the Atlantic Coast. There are a few deep water ones, some of which 



486 Ajnerican Seashelh 

belong to closely related genera. The characters most relied upon in distinguishing species are relative length of the arms, the skin surface, the nature 
and relative length of the small ligula (the tiny pad-like extension on the 
end of the third right arm in the males, i.e., the hectocotylized arm). The 
number of gill plates and color pattern are used to a less extent. 

The eight arms have each been given a number, in order that comparisons may be made. This is done by setting the octopus down with the 
body up, and the arms spread-eagle out in all directions. Turn the octopus 
so that the two eyes are on the side away from you. By going from the eyes 
out to the mantle edge away from you, and choosing the first arm to the 
