I /4 to I % inches in length, similar to say ana, but smaller, more globose, 
with an oily finish and generally more lightly colored. The Golden Olive 
or Golden Panama is merely a rare orange form of this species. Sometimes 
pure white or very dark-brown in color. A common West Indian species. 
See remarks under say ana. 

Genus Olwella Swainson 183 1 

Distinguished from the genus Oliva by its much smaller shell and in possessing an operculum. 

Olivella miitica Say Variable Dwarf Olive 

Plate 22V 
North Carolina to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 

/4 to /4 inch in length, half as wide, with a sharp apex. Strong, glossy 
callus is present on the parietal wall at the upper end of the aperture. Variable in color: ashy grays and chocolate-browns to yellowish or whitish with 
wide bluish-gray spiral bands. Sometimes brightly banded with white and 
browns. A very common species found in warm, shallow waters. 

Olivella nivea Gmelin West Indian Dwarf Olive 

Plate iih, j 
Southeast Florida, the West Indies and Bermuda. 

V2 to I inch in length, whorls about 7, apex sharply pointed; nucleus 
small, white, tan or purple. Suture channel is deep and fairly wide; with a 
strongly concave, etched, spiral indentation on the side of the preceding 
whorl. Color variable, usually cream-white with orange, tan or purple occurring in clumps in a spiral series just below the suture and just above the 
fasciole (that raised spiral ridge at the base of the shell). Fasciole lacks color. 
Common from shore to 25 fathoms. Compare with jaspidea which has a 
more bulbous apex. 

Olivella jaspidea Gmelin Jasper Dwarf Olive 

Plate 1 1 -i 
Southeast Florida to Barbados. 

% to % inch in length, whorls about 5, apex blunt, nuclear whorls large. 
Color variable, usually grayish white with small, dull maculations of purplish 
brown. Fasciole at base of columella with irregular, brown spots and bars. 
A common West Indian species found in shallow water in sand. Compare 
with nivea. 

Olivella moorei Abbott Moore's Dwarf Olive 

Off Key Largo to Key West, Florida. 



OLIVIDAE 247 

% inch in length, apex bulbous. Characterized by its translucent shell 
with numerous, long, wavy, axial flammules of reddish brown on the sides of 
the whorls. Dredged from 115 to 144 fathoms. Named for Hilary B. Moore 
of the University of Miami, Florida. 

Olivella floralia Duclos Common Rice Olive 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 
