
% inch in length, ovate, inflated; beaks close together, pointing toward 



CARDITIDAE 379 

each other, located nearer the anterior end. Lunule narrow, rough, illdefined. Numerous strong radial ribs are weakly beaded. Color whitish with 
a rose tint. Moderately common from i foot to 70 fathoms on sandy bottoms. Compare with the commoner and closely resembling Venericardia 
tridentata. 



Genus Venericardia Lamarck 1801 

Shell rounded-trigonal, with strong radial ribs which are commonly 
beaded; internal margins crenulate; right anterior cardinal and laterals absent. 
No byssus made. 

Subgenus Cyclocardia Conrad 1867 
Cyclocardia has whitish shells and a rough periostracum. 

Venericardia borealis Conrad Northern Cardita 

Plate 28t 

Labrador to Cape Hatteras. 

I to i^ inches in height, rounded, obliquely heart-shaped, thick and 
strong; beaks elevated and turned forward. Surface with about 20 rounded, 
moderately rough or beaded, radial ribs. Shell white, usually covered by a 
fairly thick, velvety, rusty-brown periostracum. Lunule small but very deeply 
sunk. Hinge strong; in the left valve the central tooth under the beak is 
large, triangular and curved. Very common on the Grand Banks where it 
serves as a food for fish. 

V. novangliae Morse (Nova Scotia to New York) is similar, but is ovate, 
the length being slightly greater than the height of the shell. It is sometimes 
considered a variety of borealis. 

Venericardia ventricosa Gould Stout Cardita 

Plate 29I 
Puget Sound to Santa Barbara Islands. 

About % inch in length, rounded-trigonal, moderately fat, lunule small; 
with about 1 3 rather wide, radial ribs which are bluntly beaded. Inner margins of the valves have prominent, squarish, widely spaced crenulations which 
correspond to the external ribs. There are two other forms, one from Monterey (stearnsi Dall), the other from Redondo Beach, which are very close, 
but their distinctiveness and proper names are yet to be decided. The latter 
form is V. redondoensis "Burch" P. Morris 1952. C. ventricosa is dredged 
fairly commonly. 



380 



A^jierican Seas he Us 

