at the end of the beach may still shelter a pair of cowries or a nest of orangetentacled Lima Clams; or the seafan momentarily admired and cast aside may 
be the holdfast for a colony of rare, purple Simnia snails. All mollusks have 
their particular ecological niches or favorite haunts, whether a very limited 
type of locality or more extensive areas such as mud flats, rocky shores or 
the open ocean. To be forearmed with a knowledge of where our species 
live will often bring rich rewards from salt marshes, eel-grass flats, mangrove 
trees, the backs of other marine creatures, the underside of boats or even the 
stomachs of fish. The tracks made by gastropods on sand or mud bottoms 
are characteristic for many species and can aid in hunting down live specimens. So, too, holes of certain shapes and sizes in the sand flat are a betrayal 
of the clam occupant deep below. At times it is worthwhile to know when 
and where gregarious mollusks gather to breed. Their appearance is often 
clocked not only by the seasons but often bv tidal conditions and the time 
of day. Most intertidal species reveal themselves more frequently about half 
an hour after the tide has begun to rise. A great number of species are more 
active a few hours after dark, while others are content to wait until early 
morning before starting on their foraging missions. 

Attention to tides, seasonal moods of the ocean and the effects of winds 
and currents is put to good use by the expert collectors. September seems to 
be the most favorable time, for instance, to gather shells on the Carolina 
strands. During late April and early May there is more likelihood of the 
Purple Sea Snail, <tname>JajJtbma</tname>, being washed ashore on the east coast of Florida. 
After winter gales, some New England beaches may be strewn with millions 
of large Surf Clams, <tname>Spisida</tname>. 

Low tide is obviously the best time to collect, and most collectors make 
long-range plans to catch the spring tides. Local newspapers publish the 
times of low and high tides, but many serious collectors prefer to use the 
Coast and Geodetic Survey Tide Tables to plan well in advance for the lowest 
tide of the month. Tide Tables for the Pacific and Atlantic coasts may be 
obtained for a fraction of a dollar from the U.S. Department of Commerce, 
Washington 25, D.C. 

As you may well know, the rise and fall of tides are caused by the attraction of the moon, and to a lesser extent by the sun. Choose the time 
of the new and full moon for collecting, for that is when the sun and moon 
are uniting their forces to give the lowest or spring tides. Low tide lasts 
for about fifteen minutes, but profitable collecting may be done one hour before or after. It is sometimes useful to know that the tides are about fifty 
minutes later the following day. Be aware of the dangers of rising tides, 



58 American Seashells 

especially if you have waded a long distance out to some small isle at low 
tide. Tidal currents can sometimes be extremely strong at the narrow mouths 
of inlets, and swimmers are urged to familiarize themselves with local conditions. 

If one were to take into the field the collecting equipment which has 
been recommended by friends and books, one would certainly resemble 
a busy Christmas shopper in full knightly armor. Crowbars, bilge pumps, 
shovels, rakes, sets of screens, hammer and chisels, even water wings and 
miner's caps have been suggested. It is true that these and many other pieces 
of equipment are ideal for very specific and limited purposes, but for general 
collecting simplicity and lightness of gear are most essential. If at a later 
date you wish to collect a certain species which lives in rocks, take along that 
hammer and chisel. 

Streamlined collecting in the intertidal areas when it is calm calls for 
little more than a pair of canvas shoes, bathing suit and a few small cloth 
bags. Wear shirt and pants if the sun is bright and your tan still underdeveloped. Two or three cotton bags may be tucked under the belt until 
