In most cases the shell material in the snails is secreted by special glands 
located along the edge of the fleshy mantle of the animal. Within the aperture or mouth of the shell a certain amount of reinforcing material may be 
secreted by the roof of the mantle, especially in the case of the heavy trochid 
shells which are nacreous within the aperture. The foot is often the source 
of shell material, not only as the site of the formation of the hard trapdoors 
or opercula of the turban and natica shells but also as an important addition 
to the shell itself. The actual formation of calcium carbonate and the formation of the various layers are discussed in more detail in the chapter on clams. 

In some groups of gastropods, particularly certain wentletraps and liotias, 
the mantle edge is capable of producing exquisitely fine filigree or porous 
shell structure whose intricate designs and overlapping layers can best be 
seen with the aid of a magnifying glass. In the cowrie shells, the mantle has 
two large extensions which are spread at will over the entire outside of the 



20 



A77ierjca?i Seas he Us 



shell. This covering mantle continually adds thin paintings of shell material 
over the entire outer surface of the adult shell. In these groups, where the 
outside of the shell is protected by the mantle, there is no production of protective, horny periostracum. This is a tough, mat-like and often hairy covering to the shell which prevents acids and marine growths from doing damage. 




Figure 5. Four stages in the growth of the Keyhole Limpet, <tname>Fissiirella</tname>, showing 

how the spire gradually disappears and the marginal slit becomes an apical hole. 

a, b, c, highly magnified; d, natural size. (After Boutan 1886.) 

In contrast to the bivalves, many gastropods exhibit certain modified 
shell structures when they become reproductively mature. In many instances 
adulthood of an individual is accompanied by the formation of a thickened 
or flaring apertural lip. It is most pronounced in the <tname>Strombus</tname> conchs. Pelican's Foot (<tname>Aporrhais</tname>) , marginellas, cowries and others. Such development 
is unknown in the cone shells, <tname>Busycon whelks</tname>, abalones and a host of others. 

Growth of the gastropod shell is more rapid in young individuals. Some 
species apparently continue to grow in size during their entire life span, while 
others cease once sexual maturity is reached. In the murex shells and frog 
shells (Cymatium) and certain Cassis helmet shells a strong varix or thickened rib may be formed at the edge of the shell lip at regular intervals regardless of sexual or seasonal conditions. Each thick varix represents a resting 
period in growth. Collectors may have noticed that they seldom find murex 
shells in a growth stage between varices. This is because over ninety percent 
of the snail's life is spent in the varix stage and because additional growth 
between varices takes place in less than two days. 

The color pattern of shells is a graphic representation in time of the 
secretory activity of the pigment-producing cells located along the mantle 
edge. The ground color is produced by the whole line of cells; banding is 
produced by the special activity of groups of cells, often sharply localized. 
Where the activity of these groups is cyclical, blotching results; where the 
active focus moves up and down the mantle edge, or where activity spreads 
from a focus, there may be formed zigzag, V-shaped or circle patterns. A 

