The operculum is present in many families of marine mollusks, and it often 



78 American Seas he lis 

serves as a useful identification character. It is absent in adults in the following families: Marginellidae, Cypraeidae, Tonnidae, Haliotidae, Ac77meidae, 
Fissurellidae, Janthifiidae, and nearly all of the sea slugs (opisthobranchiates, 
nudibranchs, bullas, etc.). Some genera lack this organ, such as Oliva and 
Cypraecassis, although their close relatives, Olivella, Ancilla, Phalium and 
Cassis possess well-developed opercula. Nearly all Valuta are without the 
operculum, except our West Indian Music Volute. This is also true of the 
genera Conns and Mitra whose various species may or may not possess one. 
In the Alaskan volute, V olutharpa ampuUacea Dall, 1 5 percent have an operculum, 10 percent only traces of the operculigenous area and 75 percent 
without a trace of either. The presence or absence of this part of the animal 
is not always a good classificational character. 

Many families, genera and species (although not in so many cases as 
generally believed) possess a characteristic type of operculum. Calcareous 
or hard, shelly opercula are found in the turban shells ("cat's eyes" of 
Turbo), the rissoids, the nerites, and the natica moon shells. The color and 
sculpturing of these opercula are used for identification purposes. The liotias 
(Liotiidae) possess a horny operculum which is overlaid by rows of calcareous beads. Among the horny or corneous opercula there are several important and characteristic tvpes which we have illustrated in figure 24. 

The radula. The minute teeth or radula (also called the odontophore 
or lingual ribbon) located in the mouths of all classes of mollusks, except the 
clams, are so very distinctive in the various families, genera and species that 
they have been used as a fairly reliable identification criterion. Our present 
arrangement of the gastropod families is based largely upon the radula, although many other anatomical characters of the animal and shell are equally 
important. The Greek naturalist, Aristotle, mentioned the radula of snails as 
early as 350 B.C., but a fuller account was given by the Dutch naturalist, 
Swammerdam, in the seventeenth century. The Italian malacologist, Poli, 
was the first to figure the radulae of gastropods, cephalopods and chitons. 

The radula is attached to the floor of the buccal cavity or inner mouth 
and consists of a ribbon-shaped membrane to which are attached many small, 
fairly hard teeth. The radula ribbon is maneuvered back and forth in somewhat licking fashion as the animal rasps its food. The teeth are arranged in 
transverse rows on the ribbon (see fig. 6), The number of rows may vary 
from a dozen (in some nudibranchs) to several hundred. Each transverse 
row contains a specific number of teeth, depending on the family or group 
to which the snail belongs. In the taenioglossate snails (many families, including Cypraeidae, Strovihidae, Cerithiidae and Littoriuidae) tliere are generally 
only seven teeth in each row, but each of these teeth has a distinctive shape 
and a specific number of tiny cusps on its edges. The tooth in the center is 
called the rachidian or central. Flanking this tooth on each side is a lateral. 



How to Knouo American Seas hells 



79 



Beyond each lateral there is first an inner marginal and finally an outer marginal. This makes seven teeth in all. In the rachiglossate snails {Muricidae, 
Buccinidae, Olividae, etc.) there are only three teeth per row — the rachidian 
and a strongly cusped lateral on each side. The four toxoglossate families 
(Conidae, Turridae, Terebridae and Cancellariidae) have lost their rachidians 
and laterals and have retained only the marginals. 
