Plate 40k 

Southern Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 3 inches in length, oval to slightly elongate, moderately compressed, 
strong, with a smooth, glossy surface except for microscopic, radial scratches. 
Exterior color either whitish or usually faintly rayed, or banded at the ventral margins with soft, creamy-orange. Inside polished white to yellowish. 
Rare in Florida, fairly common in the West Indies. 

Subgenus Tellinella Morch 1853 
Tellina interrupta Wood Speckled Tellin 

Plate 40I 

North Carolina to south half of Florida and the West Indies. 

2/4 to 3% inches in length, well elongated, moderately inflated, twisted 
at the posterior end where at the dorsal margin on the right valve there are 
2 rough ridges. Concentric threads numerous, evenly spaced. Color whitish 
with numerous small, prominent, zigzag specklings of purplish brown. Interior yellowish. Not uncommon in southeast Florida, but abundant in some 
shallow West Indian bays. 

Tellina idae Dall Ida's Tellin 

Figures 87a, b; 28h 

Santa Monica to Newport Bay, California. 

2 to 2 34 inches in length, elongate, compressed. With strong, rather 
evenly spaced, concentric, lamellate threads. Posterior end narrow, slightly 
twisted and with a rounded, radial ridge near the dorsal margin (in right 
valve) or a ridge at the dorsal margin and a furrow below it (left valve). 
Ligament elongate and sunk deeply into the long, deep dorsal-margin furrow. 
Color grayish white. Moderately common. 

Subgenus Angulus Miihlfeld 181 1 

Tellina agilis Stimpson Northern Dwarf Tellin 

Plate 30X; figure 86f 
Gulf of St. Lawrence to North Carolina. 

Vs to Yz inch in length, moderately elongate, compressed, fairly fragile; 
glossy-white externally with an opalescent sheen. Interior white. Ligament 
external and prominent. With a large rounded pallial sinus almost extending 
to the anterior muscle scar. External sculpture of faint, microscopic, concentric, impressed lines. Commonly found washed on shore from Maryland 
north. Formerly known as Tellina tenera Say and Angiiliis tener Say (not 



TELLINIDAE 



423 



Schrank 1803 nor Leach 18 18). In 1858, W. Stimpson gave this species a 
new name (Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 25, p. 125). T. elucens Mighels might be 
