Alaska to Crescent City, California. 



156 American Seashells 

% to % inch in length, dirty whitish gray in color with an undertone 
of reddish brown. About a dozen whorls. With wide, flat-topped, raised 
spiral cords between which are depressed, squarish, spiral furrows half as 
wide as the cords. 4 to 5 cords between sutures. Common below low 
water. The subspecies montereyense Bartsch (Crescent City south to Lower 
California) is glossy, whitish with brown maculations and is proportionately 
shorter. 

Bittium quadrifilatmn Carpenter Four-threaded Bittium 

Monterey, Cahfornia, to Lower California. 

% inch in length, similar to atteniiatum, but earliest whorls with about 
a dozen smooth axial ribs which, however, in subsequent whorls become 
beaded as 4 to 5 small spiral threads cross them. The sculpturing may become 
faint at the very last third of the last whorl. Color reddish brown to gray. 
A very common littoral species. 

Bittium attenuatum Carpenter Slender Bittium 

Forrester Island, Alaska, to Lower California. 

/4 inch in length, slender, yellowish brown to dark-brown. Sculpture 
variable. Nuclear whorls with two smooth spiral cords. Early whorls have 
4 to 5 spiral rows of small beads, sometimes arranged axially. In the last 
whorl, the cords gradually become smooth and flat-topped and resemble those 
of eschrichti. Common just ofl^shore to 35 fathoms. 

Subgenus Lirobitthmi Bartsch 191 1 
Bittium interfossum Carpenter White Cancellate Bittium 

Monterey, California, to Lower California. 

/4 inch in length, pure-white; whorls in spire with 2 rows of sharp beads 
connected by small axial and spiral threads or small cords. Base of shell with 
3 very strong, rounded, smooth spiral cords. Moderately common under 
rocks at low tide. 

Subfamily LITIOPINAE 
Genus Litiopa Rang 1829 

Litiopa melanostojna Rang Brown Sargassum Snail 

Plate 2ik 

Pelagic in floating sargassum weed. 



CERITHIIDAE 157 

%6 to % inch in length, fragile, light-brown; moderately elongate, with 
7 whorls, the last being quite large. Nuclear whorls extremely small. Surface glossy, smooth, except for numerous, microscopic, incised spiral lines. 
Characterized by the strong ridge just inside the aperture on the columella. 
