Nova Scotia to Cape Cod, Massachusetts. 

I to 2 inches in length, round in cross-section and dull, ivory-white in 
color. Region of the apex always very eroded and chalky. Surface uneven 
and with some longitudinal wrinkles in better preserved specimens. A poor 
subspecies of the north European D. entale Linne. Common from 8 to 1 200 
fathoms. The subgenus Antalis H. and A. Adams is the same as Dentale. 

Dentalium occidentale Stimpson Western Atlantic Tusk 

Newfoundland to off Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. 



3 30 American Seashells 

I to 1% inches in length. Primary ribs i6 to i8, fairly distinct in 
the young stages; sculptureless in the senile stage. Round in cross-section. 
Chalky-white when eroded. Common from 20 to 1,000 fathoms. 

Dentalium autillarum Orbigny Antillean Tusk 

South half of Florida and the West Indies. 

About I inch in length, roundish in cross-section. Primary ribs 9, but 
increasing to 1 2 near the middle and finally with 24 near the aperture. Microscopic, transverse lines between the ribs. Color opaque-white, rarely 
reflecting a greenish tint. Encircled with weak, zigzag bands or splotches 
of translucent gray. 

Dentalium pilsbryi Rehder Pilsbry's Tusk 

Figure 69d 

West Florida and Brazil only. 

% to 1% inches in length, roundish in cross-section. Primary ribs 9, 
with a smaller, weaker, rounded, secondary rib appearing between each. All 
ribs fade out toward the anterior end. Intercostal spaces flat, crossed by 
coarse growth lines. No transverse, microscopic sculpture. Color opaquewhite; without gray splotches. Formerly known as D. pseiidohexagonum 
Henderson 1920, not Arnold 1903. Uncommon from 2 to 5 fathoms. 

Dentalium pretiosum Sowerby Indian Money Tusk 

Figure 6gi 

Alaska to Lower California. 

About 2 inches in length, moderately curved and solid; opaque-white, 
ivory-like, commonly with faint dirty-buff rings of growth. Apex with a 
short notch on the convex side. A common offshore species which was used 
extensively by the northwest Indians for money. 

Subgenus Fissidentalium Fischer 1895 
Dentalium floridense Henderson Florida Tusk 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 3 inches in length, roundish in cross-section. Shell hard and yellowish white. Apex hexagonal with concave spaces between. Ribs increase 
to 24 anteriorly and are rounded, equal-sized and crowded. There is a long, 
narrow apical slit on the convex side. Rare from 35 to 100 fathoms. 
