margin. 90 rows of teeth, with about 47 pleural teeth on each side of the 
central tooth which has 4 to 6 even-sized denticles. Not uncommon in rock 
pools. 

Subfamily GLOSSODORIDINAE 

Brilliantly blue-colored; back smooth, body elongate. Labial armature 
strong, of very minute hooks. Center of radula very narrow, often with 



DENDRODORIDIDAE 303 

minute, compressed spurious teeth. Penis unarmed. Chromodoris Alder and 
Hancock is a synonym of the following genus. 

Genus Glossodoris Ehrenberg 1831 
Glossodoris porterae Cockerell Porter's Blue Doris 

Plate 1 61 

Monterey to San Diego, California. 

Yo inch in length, characterized by its deep ultramarine blue (dissolves 
out at death) and by the two orange stripes. Foot without orange marks. 
Fairly common in rocky tide pools. This might be the young or a form of 
the next species. 

Glossodoris calif orniensis Bergh Califomian Blue Doris 

Monterey to San Diego, California. 

2 inches in length. Like G. porterae, but with numerous, bright, orange, 
oblong spots in two rows on the mantle, another row down each side of the 
foot, and a group of round spots on the anterior end. Common in tide pools. 
G. universitatis Ckll. is this species. 

Glossodoris macjarlandi Cockerell MacFarland's Blue Doris 

La Jolla to San Pedro, California. 

% inch in length, like a small porterae, but with a ground color of reddish purple (not dissolving out at death); mantle with a yellow-orange margin and 3 longitudinal yellow stripes. End of foot with an orange stripe. 
Rare. 

Family DENDRODORIDIDAE 

Body soft, Doris-shaped. Pharyngeal bulb and elongated sucking tube, 
destitute of mandibles and radulae. Penis armed with a series of hooks. 
Doriopsis Pease is a synonym of the following genus. 

Genus Defidrodoris Ehrenberg 1831 
Dendrodoris fulva MacFarland Common Yellow Doris 

California. 

2 inches in length. Back soft, with low, papilla-like elevations tipped 
with white. Rhinophores with 18 to 20 leaves in the clavus which is % the 



