papers available in public libraries, there are few places where amateurs may 
turn for expert determinations. Fortunately, not a few private collectors are 
even more familiar with their local faunas than are the professional workers. 
Although some charge small fees for their services, most are only too happy 
to identify your "sticklers." It is customary to name only material which has 
been sorted and which has accurate and detailed locality data, and to send a 
sufficient series so that the identifier may retain a sample for his efforts. It is 
a breach of etiquette to send material before asking if the identifier is willing 
to undertake the task. Sending photographs is highly unreliable and is tantamount to saying you do not trust the specimens out of your hands. Some 
museums will identify specimens if vou are unable to do so after serious 
effort, and this, of course, can be done only if the curator or research worker 
has the time. Never send more than five species at a time. It is surprising how 
many people abuse this service, purely voluntary on the part of the expert, 
by sending unsorted, data-less shells. It is more important that the professional spend his time in caring for his vast collections, doing his research and 
writing^ for the benefit of all, than in identifying for the few. Medical workers, agriculturalists, archaeologists, fisheries men, ecologists and other professional malacologists already demand a great deal of his time. 



68 Ainerican Se ash ells 

OUTSTANDING COLLECTIONS 

There are a number of very lovely private collections in the United 
States, some devoted wholly to marine species, others limited to land or 
fresh-water types. Many represent years of collecting, others an expenditure 
of many thousands of dollars. To mention a few would be to slight many 
another. The best private collections are in California, Florida, Connecticut, 
the New York area and Massachusetts. As time passes, private collections 
are either sold, lost or left to some public or university museum, so that today 
we find the largest collections housed by public or endowed institutions. 

The United States National Museum, under the Smithsonian Institution 
in Washington, D.C., contains what is undoubtedly the largest mollusk collection in the world. Until Dr. Paul Bartsch, now retired, was curator, it 
was second in size to that of the British Museum in London. Today, this 
study collection contains over 9,000,000 specimens, 600,000 lots or suites and 
in the neighborhood of 36,000 species and subspecies. Its curator at present 
is Dr. Harald A. Rehder, and his associates are Dr. J. P. E. Morrison. 

The Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, has risen to second place in the United States within the last 
fifteen years. It is famous for its well-kept collection of about 7,000,000 
specimens, 300,000 lots and approximately 28,000 species and subspecies. Its 
present curator is Dr. William J. Clench, noted for his development of students in mollusks. Dr. Ruth D. Turner is assistant curator. 

The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, is 
third or fourth in size and contains an unusual amount of valuable material. 
Its present curator. Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, has been with the institution for 
over sixty years, and he has contributed more to our science than any other 
worker. He was preceded by two equally famous curators, George W. 
Tryon and Thomas Say, America's first malacologist. The author is the 
present incumbent of the Pilsbry Chair of A4alacology. 

In the Midwest, one of our largest fresh-water and land collections is 
located at the Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. 
Dr. Henry van der Schalie, an expert on fresh-water clams, is the curator. 
The Chicago Museum of Natural History in Illinois contains a small but 
adequate collection and is under the care of Dr. Fritz Haas, a scientist wellversed in many phases of malacology. 

There are no very large study collections in southeastern United States, 
although one of the finest exhibit collections is on display at Rollins College 
