Lischkeia cidaris Carpenter Adams' Spiny Margarite 

Figure 3ih 

Alaska to Lower California. 

I to I /4 inches in length, moderately solid, similar to L. bairdi but with 
a higher, flat-sided spire. The suture is usually more impressed. Color gray 
to grayish white. Moderately common from 20 to 350 fathoms. 



1 10 American Seashells 

Subgenus Calliotropis Seguenza 1903 
Lischkeia ottoi Philippi Otto's Spiny Margarite 

Nova Scotia to Nortii Carolina. 

% to % inch in length, equally wide. Moderately thin with a sharp lip. 
The round, narrow umbilicus is partially covered by the top of the columella. Color pearly-white. Sculpture of whorls in spire with 3 evenly spaced 
spiral rows of prickly beads. Suture wavy. Base of shell with 4 to 5 spiral 
threads which bear smaller, often obscure, beads. Nuclear whorls with axial 
lamellae. S. regalis Verrill and Smith is the same species. Common from 50 
to 100 fathoms. 

Genus Solariella Wood 1842 
(Machaeroplax Friele 1877) 

Solariella obscura Couthouy Obscure Solarelle 

Figure 3if, g 

Labrador to off Chesapeake Bay, Virginia. 

^ inch in length, similar to Margarites costalis, but with whorls made 
more angular by one large, feebly beaded, spiral cord above the periphery. 
Base smoothish except for microscopic, spiral scratches. Umbilicus narrower 
and bordered by an angular rim. Color grayish to pinkish tan, often worn to 
reveal a pearly-golden color. Aperture pearly-white. Some specimens may 
have weak axial riblets below the strongest spiral cord on the periphery of the 
whorl. Commonly dredged from 3 to 400 fathoms, especially on the Grand 
Banks. 

Solariella lacunella Dall Channeled Solarelle 

Figure 32b, c 

Virginia to Key West, Florida. 

% inch in length, equally wide, thick, pure white. Whorls convex. 
Aperture circular, internally pearly. Suture channeled. Whorls with 6 spiral 
cords, bottom 3 smooth, the upper ones axially beaded. Nuclear whorls 
glassy, with microscopic axial ribs. Umbilicus round, narrow, deep, lined 
with spiral rows of coarse beads. Very commonly dredged from 18 to 100 
fathoms. 

Solariella lamellosa Verrill and Smith Lamellose Solarelle 

Plate 17X 
