

OLIVIDAE 245 

7 to 14 inches in length, very heavy. Color cream-white with a thick, 
light-brown periostracum. Interior often tinged with glossy, pinkish cream 
or deep, brownish orange. Columella bears 3 strong, widely spaced folds. 
Middle of whorl on inside of aperture often with a spiral, weak ridge. A lefthanded specimen of this species would be worth its weight in silver. Once 
called Turbinella scolyma Gmelin. Common in the Bahamas and Cuba. 

Subfamily VASINAE 
Genus Vasum Roding 1798 

Vasum muricatum Born Caribbean Vase 

Plate 23I 

South half of Florida and the West Indies. 

2% to 4 inches in length, heavy. Blunt spines are at the shoulder and 
near the base. Shell chalk-white, covered by thick, black-brown periostracum. Aperture glossy-white and with a purplish tinge. Columella with 5 
strong folds, the first and third being the largest. Rather common, often in 
pairs, in shallow water. Preys on worms and clams. 

The subspecies coestiis Broderip 1833 (Panamanian Vase) occurs from 
the Gulf of California to Panama, and differs only in having 4 (rarely 5) 
columella folds and in having heavier spiral cords. It is common. 

Superfajnily VOLUTACEA 

Fa7jnly OLIVIDAE 
Genus Oliva Bruguiere 1789 

Olha say ana Ravenel Lettered Olive 

Plate 12a 

North Carolina to Florida and the Gulf States. 

2 to 2% inches in length, moderately elongate, with a glossy finish and 
with rather flat sides. Color grayish tan with numerous purplish brown and 
chocolate-brown, tent-like markings. A common species found at night 
crawling in sand in shallow water. Formerly called O. litterata Lamarck. 
Do not confuse with O. reticularis which is generally smaller, which has a 
much more shallow canal at the suture, whose apical whorls are slightly convex instead of slightly concave, and whose sides of the whorls are more 
convex. Dead specimens buried for a long time in bay mud may take on an 
artificial black coloration. 



Oliva reticularis Lamarck Netted Olive 

Plate I2C 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 



246 A??7erica?i Seashelh 

