
% to I inch in length, elongate, M as wide; 8 to 10 rounded whorls. No 
umbilicus. Aperture round; columella smooth, slightly arched. Whorls with 
5 to 6 smooth, flat-topped, spiral cords between sutures. Color cream to 
chalky-white, with a thin, polished, gray-brown periostracum. Operculum 
round, multispiral, chitinous, dark-brown. Common from 10 to 75 fathoms. 

T. reticulatum Mighels (Arctic Ocean to Maine; and Alaska) is similar. 



TURRITELLIDAE 141 

but usually has spiral cords only on the base and one just above the suture, 
and has about i8 to lo axial, rounded ribs per whorl. Some specimens show 
fine, spiral, incised lines. Common from 1 6 to 60 fathoms. 

Tachyrhynchiis lacteolum Carpenter Milky Turret-shell 

Alaska to Lower California. 

% inch in length, similar to erosinn, but % as wide as long, and the cords 
between sutures are finely beaded. The beads are arranged more or less in 
axial rows. The last third of the body whorl bears weak, non-beaded spiral 
cords. This species differs from reticulatum in its smaller size, less slender 
shape, less convex whorls, and much finer sculpturing. 

Genus Turritella Lamarck 1799 
Turritella acropora Dall Boring Turret-shell 

Plate 21] 

North Carolina to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 

1 inch in length, resembling exoleta, but with convex whorls, and with 
numerous, fine, spiral threads a few of which, at the periphery, are slightly 
larger than the others. There is a very weak series of riblets just below the 
suture. Color yellowish to brownish orange. Common just offshore. 

T. variegata Linne, the Variegated Turret-shell (pi. 2ii) (West Indies), 
is similar, but up to 4 inches in length, with flat-sided whorls, and is mottled 
with mauve, white and dark-brown. Common. 

Turritella exoleta Linne Eastern Turret-shell 

Plate 2ih 
South half of Florida and the West Indies. 

2 inches in length, long, slender and with a sharp apex. Each whorl with 
a large, coarse cord above and below, with the part between the cords concave and occasionally crossed by microscopic, arched, brown, scale-like 
lamellae. Base of shell concave. Color glossy-white to cream with sparse, 
axial flammules of light yellow-brown. Moderately common from i to 100 
fathoms. This species is placed in the subgenus Torcula Gray 1847. 

Turritella cooperi Carpenter Cooper's Turret-shell 

Plate 20g 

Monterey, California, to Lower California. 

