purplish brown. A common species found clinging to rocks high above the 
water line but within reach of the ocean spray. A. spectrum Nuttall is the 
same species. Do not confuse with the smaller A. conus which is evenly 
glossed, instead of coarse and dull, on its interior center. 

Acmaea testudinalts scutum Eschscholtz Pacific Plate Limpet 

Alaska to Oregon (common) to Lower CaHfornia (rare). 

I to 2 inches in maximum diameter, almost round in outline, quite flat, 
with the apex toward the center of the shell. Smoothish, except for very fine 
radial riblets in young specimens. External color greenish gray with slate-gray 
radial bands or mottlings. Interior bluish white with faint or darkish brown 
spot. Inner edge with band of alternating bars of black or brown and bluish 
white. The name of this species was also known as <tlawname>tessulata Miiller</tlawname>. The 
typical testudmalis from the Arctic Seas and New England rarely, if ever, 
exceeds a size of i K- inches, is not so round, and has a darker, more concentrated brown patch on the inside. Intergrades exist in Alaskan waters. 
The Pacific race was also named <tlawname>patina Esch</tlawname>. 

Acmaea asfin Middendorff Black Limpet 

Alaska to Mexico, clinging to the gastropod, Tegula. 

/4 inch in maximum diameter, high-conic, elliptical in outline, and solid 
black inside and out. In the northern part of its range, the Black Limpet is 
found living attached to the common snail, Tegula funebralis A. Adams, 

Acmaea triangularis Carpenter Triangular Limpet 

Southern California to Gulf of California. 

Yi inch in maximum diameter, oblong in outline, side view distinctly 
triangular. Color whitish with 3 or 4 vertical, rather broad, brown stripes on 
each side. Found among coralline algae from the shore line down to several 
fathoms. Uncommon. 

Acmaea depicta Hinds Painted Limpet 

Santa Barbara, California, to Lower California. 



ACMAEIDAE 105 

V2 inch in maximum diameter, very narrow, 3 times as long as wide. 
Sides straight with brown verti(?al stripes on a whitish background. Smoothish. This species is found on the broad-leaved eel-grass of the estuaries. Abundant in certain localities, such as Mission Bay. 

Acmaea instabilis Gould Unstable Limpet 

Plate i8zz 

Alaska to San Diego, California. 

I to I M inches in maximum diameter, oblong with a rather high apex. 
Sides compressed. Lower edge curved so that the shell rocks back and forth 
if put on a flat surface. Exterior dull, light-brown. Interior whitish with 
faint brown stain in the center and with a narrow, solid border of brown. 
Inhabits the stems or holdfasts of large seaweeds. Moderately common. 

Acmaea insessa Hinds Seaweed Limpet 
