and strong corrugations on the outer surface. 3 to 4 large tubular holes are 
open. Exterior dull-green to reddish brown. Interior brilliant iridescent. The 
variety diegoensis Orcutt is the same. Abundant in its southern range. The 
legal minimum collecting size is 6 inches. 

Haliotis fulgens Philippi Green Abalone 

Plate 2b 

Farallon Islands, California, to the Gulf of California. 

7 to 8 inches in length, almost round, moderately deep, and sculptured 
with 30 or 40 raised, coarse spiral threads. Exterior dull reddish brown; 
interior iridescent blues and greens. 5 to 6 holes are open. Fished commercially in southern California. The legal minimum size is 6^ inches. H. 
splendens Reeve, H. revea Bartsch, and H. turveri Bartsch are the same species in all likelihood. 

Haliotis walallefisis Stearns Northern Green Abalone 

Westport, Washington, to Point Conception, California. 

4 to 5 inches in length, elongate, flattened, with numerous spiral threads. 
Exterior dark brick-red, mottled with pale bluish green. 5 to 6 holes are 
open, and their edges are not elevated. This is a small, relatively scarce 
species. 

Haliotis assimilis Dall Threaded Abalone 

Plate 2d 

Farallon Islands to San Diego, CaHfomia. 

4 to 5 inches in length, oval, fairly deep, with weak corrugations and 
weak to strong spiral threads. 4 to 5 holes open, tubular. Outer color mottled with brick-red, greenish blue and gray. H. aiilaea Bartsch is a little more 
corrugated than usual, and it may be this species. H. smithsont Bartsch and 
H. sorenseni Bartsch appear to be giant specimens of assimilis Dall. 



94 American Seas hells 

Haliotis kamtschatkana Jonas Japanese Abalone 

Plate 2e 

Japan, southern Alaska to Point Conception, California. 

4 to 6 inches in length, elongate, with a fairly high spire. 4 to 5 holes 
open which have raised edges. Outside of shell rudely corrugated, but a few 
specimens may have weak, spiral cords. This is a small species, uncommon 
in California, but increasingly abundant northward. 

Haliotis pourtalesi Dall Pourtales' Abalone 

Off the Lower Florida Keys. 

% to I inch in length, elongate, with 22 to 27 wavy, spiral cords. Outside waxy yellow to light-brown with a few irregular patches of reddish 
orange. A light-orange band runs from each hole to the edge of the shell. 
Inside pearly-white. A very rare species, and the only one recorded from our 
eastern coast. It has been dredged from 6^ to 200 fathoms. Beware of young 
specimens from other oceans labeled as this species. 
