William J. Clench, Joseph Bequaert, Ruth D. Turner and others. I would 
also like to thank my friends in the National Museum for constant encouragement. 

The heaviest debt is to the countless amateur collectors of American 
mollusks. Were it not for their enthusiastic pursuit of shells and their unselfish desire to share their treasures with our leading museums, our scientific 
collections undoubtedly would be half their present size. It is my sincere 
hope that this book, by its usefulness, will measure up to their kindnesses and 
friendships. 

Illustrations make the book, and American Seashells could not have been 
successfully completed without the aid of Frederick M. Bayer, Associate 
Curator in the National Museum, who is responsible for the colored plates, 
including the lovely paintings of western <tname>Atlantic nudibranchs</tname>. Most of 
the other photographs were also taken by him. Special thanks are due William 
J. Clench who made available all the photographs and drawings that have 
appeared in Johnsonia. !!!The colored paintings of Pacific coast nudibranchs 
are taken from F. M. MacFarland's "The <tname>Opisthobranchiate</tname> Mollusks from 
Monterey Bay, California, and Vicinity," which appeared in 1906 in the U. S. 
Bureau of Fisheries Bulletin 25. All of the exquisite pen drawings of shells, 
unless otherwise noted, were executed by the U. S. Army Surgeon, John C. 
McConnell, in connection with researches done by W illiam H, Dall of the 
U. S. Geological Survey. Our photographs of Florida Thorny Oysters are 
from specimens kindly sent on loan by Leo L. Burry of Pompano Beach, 
Florida. 

Notable credit is due Chanticleer Company of New York City which took 
such pains in the preparation of the colored plates, and to the printer who 
retained with such remarkable fidelity the beauty of the original photographs. 

R. T. A. 

Washington, D. C. 
September 15, 1953. 



Contents 



CHAPTER PAGE 

Preface vii 

List of Plates xi 

Foreword by H. A. Pilsbry xiii 

Part I — The Natural History of Seashells 

I Man and Mollusks 3 

II Life of the Snails 16 

III Life of the Clams 31 

IV Lives of the Other Mollusks 46 

V Collecting American Seashells 56 

