
This subclass, which includes the Chambered Nautilus and about 5000 
species of fossil and extinct Ammonites, is not represented in American 
waters. The living species of Nautilus from the Indo-Pacific are characterized by a large, chambered, external shell, by two. pairs of gills, and by their 
numerous suckerless arms. 

Subclass DIBRANCHIA 

All of the living cephalopods with the exception of Nautilus belong to 
this subclass which is characterized by animals that have one pair of gills, 8 
or 10 arms which bear rows of suckers, and whose shell is internal or entirely absent. 

Order DECAPODA 
(Spirula and Squid) 

With 10 arms, 2 of which are the long tentacular arms; body long and 
cylinder-shaped. An internal shell is present in most cases, and nmv be calcareous (the cuttlebone) or thin and horny (squid pen). The small suckers 
on the arms are usually set on small stalks or peduncles and their apertures 
are armed with horny rings or hooks. 

Fajnily SPIRULIDAE 
Genus Spirula Lamarck 1799 

Spirula spirula Linne Common Spirula 

Figure 98 

Cape Cod to the West Indies. Worldwide. 

478 



SEPIOLIDAE 479 

The rather fragile, white shell is a chambered cone coiled in a flat spiral, 
usually less than i inch in diameter and with the coils not in contact. Each 
small chamber in the shell is divided from its neighbor by a nacreous-white, 




Figure 98. The white, inch-long shells (a and b) of Spin/la spirilla Linne are 

commonly washed ashore on southern beaches, but the squid-like animal (c) lives 

at great depths and is very seldom captured alive. 

concave, fragile septum or wall. There is a small siphonal tube running back 
into the shell and piercing the septa. These shells are cast up on the beaches 
quite commonly. The body is short and cylindrical, and surrounds the shell 
almost completely except for two small areas. The 8 sessile arms and 2 pedunculated tentacular arms are very short. 

Myopsid Squid — transparent cornea over eyes; pupils crescent-shaped 

Family SEPIOLIDAE 
Genus Rossia Owen 1828 

Short, "tubby" animals whose bodies are rounded at the end. The mantle edge is free all around. 8 arms short with 2 to 4 rows of spherical suckers 
which have smooth, horny rims. The two tentacular arms can be almost 
