leading edge. Exterior with or without a yellowish periostracum. Found 
in rock crevices and apertures of dead shells. 

Super fajmly STROMBACEA 

Family XENOPHORIDAE 

Genus Xenophora Fischer von W. 1807 

This group of gastropods is noted for its peculiar habit of cementing 
to its own shell fragments of other shells, stones, bits of coral and coal. The 
animals resemble those of the Strombus conchs, but the operculum is much 
wider and not sickle-shaped. B. R. Bales once humorously observed: 



i 



STROMBIDAE 17 3 

"It is generally admitted that the camouflage of Xe?iophora is for protection 
rather than ornamentation, for it would be inconceivable that a female 
Xenophora would call over the back fence to her girl friend with, 'Come 
and see the perfect dream of a shell I picked up today and tell me if I have 
it on straight.' " 

There are 3 species in the Atlantic, one a shallow water species, the other two 
(longleyi Bartsch, pi. 23d, and caribaea Petit, pi. 2 3e) deep water inhabitants. 

Xenophora conchy liophor a Born Atlantic Carrier-shell 

Plate 5b 

North Carolina to Key West and the West Indies. 

2 inches in diameter, not including foreign attachments. No umbilicus. 
From above, the shell with its attached rubble and shells looks like a small 
heap of marine trash. It will attach any kind of shell to itself, but in some 
areas has access to only one kind, say Chione cancellata. Animal bright-red. 
Seasonally not uncommon. Johnsonia is in error in calling this trochiformis 
Bom 1778 (not 1780), which is the Peruvian shell known formerly as 
Trochita radians Lam. 

Family APORRHAIDAE 
Genus Aporrhais da Costa 1778 

Aporrhais Occident alis Beck American Pelican's Foot 

Plate 23c 

Labrador to off North Carolina. 

2 to 2% inches in length, spire high, whorls well-rounded and with 
about 15 to 25 curved axial ribs per whorl. Many minute spiral threads 
present. Outer hp greatly expanded and its edge heavily thickened. Color 
ashen-gray to yellowish white. Operculum small, corneous, brown, claw-like, 
but with smooth edges. Commonly dredged off New England from a few 
to 200 fathoms. 
