North Carolina to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 

% to % inch in length, similar to striata, but smaller, chubbier, and 
with a somewhat triangular or lanceolate accessory plate which commonly 
has a crease running down the center. There is no free flange extending over 
the beak. Very commonly found burrowing in wood. 

Martesia smithi Tryon Smith's Martesia 

New York to north half of Florida and to Texas. 

% to ^ inch in length. Bores into rocks and old shells. Very chubby, 
with a narrow, pointed posterior end. The shelly plate over the beaks is 
somewhat diamond-shaped, with a pointed anterior end and with no crease 
on the upper surface. Posterior half of the valves with fine, silken, concentric 
threads of periostracum. Fairly common in old oyster shells. 

Family TEREDINIDAE 
Genus Bankia Gray 1842 

This is a genus of shipworms which is very common in warm American 
waters and which is of great economic importance. The two highly specialized valves of the clam are very similar to those in Teredo, and cannot 
be used as reliable identification characters. The two plume-like pallets at 
the posterior end of the worm-like animal which can close off the end of the 
burrow are used to distinguish species. In adult specimens, the shell at the 
anterior end which scrapes away the moist wood in the tunnel is about 
/4o the total length of the animal. The mantel secretes a thin, smooth calcareous lining for the burrow as an added protection to the soft body. A 
much fuller and technical account of this group is given by Clench and 
Turner in Johnsonia (1946). The life history is explained in detail by 
Sigerfoos (1908). We have included all three known species in eastern 
American waters, although five others are found in the West Indies. 



466 



Aviencan Seas he Us 



Pallets and shells are generally preserved in one part glycerin to tour 
parts alcohol (70% grain) to permit later study of the delicate cones in the 
pallets. Permanent slides can be made by soaking the pallets in 90% alcohol 
for 1 2 hours, then placing on a slide, covering with a few drops of diaphane 
or euparol, and adding a long slip-cover. 

Subgenus Bankiella Bartsch 192 1 
Bankia gouldi Bartsch Gould's Shipworm 

Figures i6; 95d 

New Jersey to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 

Pallets about ^ inch in length. Cones deep-cupped, with smooth, drawnout edges. Cones not very crowded at the distal end. Do not confuse with 
B. caribbea. Gould's Shipworm is the most widespread and abundant species 
in this genus on the Atlantic Coast, and hence is the most destructive. It 
has been found on the Pacific side of the Panama Canal. It is believed that 
B. inexicana Bartsch is the same species. 
