40 



American Se ash ells 



are flat, plate-like, unreflected lamellae and are regarded as the most primitive (Nucula, Yoldia, etc.); (2) Filibranch, in which the gills are long 
curtains folded back against themselves and held close to each other by the 




Figure 15. Diagrammatic cross-sections of clams showing the major types of gill 
structure, a, protobranch; b, filibranch; c, eulamellibranch; d, septibranch. 

interlocking of the tiny cilia on the surface of the gill filaments (arks, mussels, scallops, etc.); (3) Eulamellibranch, similar to the filibranchs except that 
the gill curtains are united by cross-channels (astartes, cardiums, venus clams, 
tellins and many others); (4) Septibranch, which have very degenerate gill 
structures consisting of two pallial chambers with only gill slits or very 
reduced gill filaments acting as windows to the chambers (Cuspidaria and 
Poromya). 



HOW THEY REPRODUCE 

The staid bivalve has made his share of contributions to experiments in 
sex and reproduction, and throughout the class we find varying degrees of 
sexual differentiation, as well as all manner of ways of insuring proper fertilization, protection of the young and thus the continuation of the species. 

The pelecypods have no copulatory organs or other external sexual 
characteristics, with the exception that in certain species of fresh-water 
mussels, the marine astartes and a few other genera, the two sexes can be 
distinguished by the shape of the adult shell. The majority of the bivalves 
as a group are predominantly of separate sexes, but at least four percent of 
those adequately studied are known to deviate from the strictly dioecious, 
or unisexual, condition. 

A few species are true hermaphrodites in which the same individual 
contains both female and male sex organs which may produce eggs and 
sperm simultaneously. In this group are found certain species of Pecten, 
Tridacna (the Giant Pacific Clam), Kellia, Dinocardiwn, Gemma, Tivela 
(the Pismo Clam), Tlyracia, Porojnya, the shipworm Teredo diegensis and 
the fresh-water genera Anodonta, Pisidium and Sphaeriwn. In some of these 



Life of the Clams 41 

the eggs are fertilized within the mantle cavity, and the young complete 
development to the adult form in brood pouches on the gills of the parent. 
Usually self-fertilization does not occur, for in the majority of these species 
the sperm is discharged before the eggs are mature in the same individual 
(protandric hermaphroditism). 

Other kinds of bivalves are accustomed to practicing sex reversal in 
which the early part of their lives is spent as males and their "adulthood" 
as females. In the Quahog {Mercenaria mere en aria), nearly all individuals 
