and heavy, others quite fragile, the latter type found attached to other shells. 
Common just offshore down to 1 16 fathoms. 

The form glauca Say is H inch long, thin-shelled, usually dark-brown 
or translucent-tan, and with a white deck. It is found in over-crowded colonies on eel-grass where specimens become long and narrow. C. acuta Lea 
is this form also. 

Crepidula aculeata Gmelin Spiny Slipper-shell 

Plate 2iq 

North Carolina to Florida, Texas and the West Indies. 

/4 to I inch in size, similar to foniicata, but characterized by its rough, 
spinose exterior, thinner and flatter shell and by its irregular edges. Color 
whitish, although often heavily mottled with reddish brown. The exterior 
is sometimes stained green by algal growths. A common species found attached to stones, mangroves and other shells. Occasionally dredged. 

Crepidula onyx Sowerby Onyx Slipper-shell 

Plate 2of 

Monterey, California, to Peru. 



172 American Seashells 

I to 2 inches in length, fairly thick-shelled, characterized by its glossy, 
dark-chocolate to whitish brown interior, and by the large, slightly concave, 
pure-white deck inside which has a sinuate free edge. Very common from 
shallow estuaries to 50 fathoms on rocks, on other shells, or stacked up on 
top of each other. 

Crepidula excavata Broderip Excavated Slipper-shell 

Monterey, California, to Peru. 

I inch in size, rather thin; back strongly arched with the apex distinct 
and hooked under itself near the posterior margin of the shell. Characterized 
by its light brownish white color, by the straight or slightly curved edge of 
the interior deck, and by a weak muscle scar on each side just under the deck. 
Found commonly attached to rocks and other shells. 

Subgenus Janacus Morch 1852 
Crepidula plana Say Eastern White Slipper-shell 

Canada to Florida and the Gulf States. Rare in the West Indies. 

34 to I % inches in size, very flat, either convex or concave, and always 
a pure milky white. The apex is very rarely turned to one side. It commonly 
attaches itself to the inside of large, dead shells, and rarely, if ever, "piles up" 
like fornicata. A common shallow-water species. 

Crepidula ninmnaria Gould Western White Slipper-shell 

Alaska to Panama. 

% to I ^ inches in length, characterized by its glossy-white underside, 
flattened shell, large deck which usually has a weak, raised ridge (or somerimes a hint of an indentation) running from the apical end forward to the 
