
Plate igf 

Labrador to Cape May, New Jersey. Northwest Europe. 

/i to % inch in length, equally wide, with a low spire; smoothish. Color 
variable but usually a uniform, bright, brownish yellow or orange-yellow. 
Sometimes with a white or brown spiral band. Columella whitish. Operculum bright yellow to orange-brown. This is L. palliata Say. A common 
coastal species associated with rockweeds. 

Littorina mespilhvm Miihlfeld Dwarf Brown Periwinkle 

Plate 19k 

Florida Keys and the Caribbean Area. 

M inch in length, somewhat shaped like obtusata. Characterized by its 
dark-brown periostracum, glossy-brown columella and aperture, by its tiny, 
chink-like umbilicus, and by the presence, in some specimens, of rows of 
small, round blackish spots. Common in "splash-pools" from high-tide line 
to 6 or 7 feet above. 

Littorina saxatilis Olivi Northern Rough Periwinkle 

Plate i9d 

Arctic Seas to Cape May, New Jersey. Arctic Seas to Puget Sound. 

% to /4 inch in length, resembling a "distorted, small L. littorea.^^ 
Adults characterized by poorly developed, smoothish, fine spiral cords. Color 
drab gray to dark-brown. Interior of aperture chocolate-brown. Females 
give birth to live, shelled young. Often found with L. obtusata, but not so 
common. This is L. rudis Maton and L. groenlandica Menke. 



134 American Seashells 

Littorina scutulata Gould Checkered Periwinkle 

Plate 20C 

Alaska to Lower California. 

% inch in length, moderately slender, semigloss finish and smooth. Color 
light to dark reddish brown with small, irregular spots of bluish white. Columella white; interior of aperture whitish brown. A common littoral species. 
Compare with L. planaxis. 

Littorina planaxis Philippi Eroded Periwinkle 

Plate 2oa 

Puget Sound to Lower California. 

^ to % inch in length, usually badly eroded; grayish brown with bluish 
white spots and flecks. Characterized by the eroded, flattened area on the 
body whorl just beside the columella. Interior of aperture chocolate-brown 
with a white spiral band at the bottom. A common littoral, rock-loving species. Do not confuse with the smoother, higher-spired L. scutulata. 

Littorina sitkana Philippi Sitka Periwinkle 
