
Cylichna alba Brown Brown's Barrel-bubble 

Arctic Seas to North Carolina. Bering Sea to San Diego, California. 

/4 inch (5 mm.) in length, fragile, narrowly oblong with flat sides. 
Apex with a dished, shallow depression. Upper 73 of aperture narrow; 
below it is wide. Columella short, rounded, slightly raised. Shell white, 
smoothish, except for microscopic, spiral scratches. Periostracum thin, 
shiny, yellowish, but often darkly stained with brown. Commonly dredged 
from I to 1000 fathoms in cold water. 

Subgenus Cylichnella Gabb 1872 
Cylichna bidentata Orbigny Orbigny's Barrel-bubble 

Plate 26q 

North Carolina, Florida to Texas and West Indies. 

3 mm. in length, somewhat resembling alba, but its columella has a spiral, 
callous fold and an indistinct nodule below. The shell is more oval. Glossywhite. Commonly found from shallow water to 200 fathoms. This is C. 
biplicata of authors, not A. Adams. 

Fa77nly PHILINIDAE 
Related to the Scaphander Canoe-shells, but different in having the 



GASTROPTERIDAE 2 8 3 

mantle reflexed and closed over the shell, in lacking central teeth in the 
radula, and in having a much more degenerate shell. 

Genus Philine Ascanius 1772 
Philine quadrata S. Wood Quadrate Paper-bubble 

Figure 596 

Arctic Seas to North Carolina. 

/4 inch in length, moderately fragile, semi-transparent, white, squarishoval and more constricted toward the top. Aperture large, flaring, and 
rounded below. Early whorls very small. Sculpture of numerous spiral 
rows of microscopic oval punctations. Suture deep. The narrow top of 
the aperture is slightly higher than the apex. Commonly dredged off the 
New England states from 20 to 400 fathoms. 

Philifie lima Brown File Paper-bubble 

Figure $^i 

Arctic Seas to Cape Cod, Massachusetts. 

H inch in length, much more oblong than quadrata, with the top of the 
aperture well below the apex, and sinuate from a top view. Columella fairly 
strong. Sculpture of spiral rows of scalloped lines forming chains, between 
which are a single scalloped line. Moderately common in fairly shallow 
but cold water. Ahas P. lineolata Couthouy. 

Philifie sagra Orbigny Crenulated Paper-bubble 

