
I inch in length, similar to eburneum, but characterized by each whorl 
having the middle spiral row of 9 to 12 beads fairly large and pointed. These 
large beads may be axially drawn out to form low ribs. Former varices are 
not often present. Color as in ehumewn. Common in the West Indies. C. 
liter atum has its strongest row of spine-like beads just below the suture. 

Certthiu7n variabile C. B. Adams Dwarf Cerith 

Plate 19-0 

South half of Florida to Texas and the West Indies. 



CERITHIIDAE 155 

% to /4 inch in length, not elongate. Apertural side of body whorl 
sometimes flat, i to 2 former varices on last whorl. 3 or 4 spiral rows of 
even-sized fine beads on the whorls of the spire. Color dark brown-black, 
but sometimes whitish with heavy specklings and mottlings and bands of 
reddish brown. Very common under rocks in warm water. Do not confuse 
with Batillaria ininwia (see above). 

Genus Bittium Gray 1847 

Shell small, very slender, spire high and body whorl small. Whorls 
varicose. Nucleus of about 3 glassy, smooth whorls. Aperture ovate, the 
anterior canal broad and stout. 

Subgenus Bittiwn s. str. 
Bittiu?7i altematiim Say Alternate Bittium 

Gulf of St. Lawrence to Virginia. 

Adults very small, % to /4 inch in length, light- to dark-brown in color, 
sometimes translucent or with specklings. Suture impressed, whorls rounded. 
Sculpture on top whorls either cancellate or with 4 to 5 spiral rows of beads, 
or occasionally with axial, nodulated ribs. Base with small spiral cords. Outer 
lip flaring, thin and sharp. Columella short, twisted at the base and stained 
brown. Very abundant from tidal flats to 20 fathoms. 

B. virginicuffi Henderson and Bartsch from Chincoteague, Virginia, is 
similar, but very elongate, more whorls, with a much more flaring and basally 
projecting lip, and with a large, whitish, former varix on the body whorl. 

Bittium variimt Pfeiffer Variable Bittium 

Plate 191 
Maryland to Florida, Texas and Mexico. 

Adults similar to altematiim, but smaller (% inch), nearly always with 
a former, thickened varix. The aperture is proportionately smaller and the 
base of the apertural lip is squarish instead of rounded. The last third of the 
body whorl is generally destitute of sculpturing. Common in eel-grass just 
below low tide. 

Subgenus Stylidium Dall 1907 
Bittium eschrichti Middendorf Giant Pacific Coast Bittium 

