2 to 3 inches in size. Right valve convex with 22 or 23 flat-topped ribs 
which are generally longitudinally ridged on top. Left valve much flatter, 
with 21 to 22 narrow, rounded ribs. Dredged from 10 to 75 fathoms. 

Subgenus Patinopecten Dall 1898 
Pecten caurinus Gould Giant Pacific Scallop 

Plate 29b 

Wrangell, Alaska, to Humboldt Bay, California. 



362 America?! Seashells 

6 to 8 inches in size, roughly circular; upper valve almost flat, reddish 
gray and with about 17 low, rounded ribs; lower valve deeper, whitish and 
with a few more, stronger, rather flat-topped ribs. This is the common, 
edible deep-sea scallop of Alaska. 



Subgenus Amusiujn Roding 1798 
Pecten papyraceus Gabb Paper Scallop 

The Gulf of Mexico and the West Indies. 

About 2 inches in size, oily smooth, glossy, exterior without ribs, but 
internally with about 22 very fine ribs which are commonly arranged in 
pairs. Both valves moderately convex to flattish. Upper valve light-mauve 
to reddish brown with darker flecks. Lower valve whitish at the center 
with yellow to cream margins or all white. Hinge line strongly arched. 
Rather rare in collections, but commonly brought up from several fathoms 
by shrimp fishermen. 

Pecten laurenti Gmelin (pi. 33f) from the Greater Antilles is larger, 
with a straight hinge line and with the lighter-colored valve more convex 
than the darker valve. Rare. 

Section Euvola Dall 1897 
Pecten ziczac Linne Zigzag Scallop 

Plate 33d 

North Carolina to Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 4 inches in size. Upper (left) valve flat; lower valve very deep and 
convex. There are 18 to 20 broad, very low, rather indistinct ribs on the 
deep valve which is generally colored a brownish red (rarely orange). The 
ribs fade out or are not present near the side margins of the valve. Flat 
valve with a bright mozaic of whites and browns. A fairly common species. 
Do not confuse with raveneli. 



Pecten raveneli Dall Ravenel's Scallop 

Plate 33g 

North Carolina, the Gulf of Mexico, and the West Indies. 
