pearly. Dredged from 73 to 130 fathoms. One of our rarest seashells. 

Subgenus Entemnotrochus P. Fischer 1885 
Ferotrochus adansonianus Crosse and Fischer Adanson's Pleurotomaria 

Plate 3d 

Cuba and the Lesser Antilles. 

3 inches in length, and slightly more in width. Umbilicus round, very 
deep. Sculpture of coarsely beaded, moderately small spiral threads. Slit on 
periphery of whorl narrow and very long ( ^ of a whorl) . Color cream with 
a salmon blush and irregular, small patches of red. Base similarly colored. 
Dredged from 94 to 100 fathoms, but sometimes brought up in fish traps. 
This is an exceedingly rare species. 

Family HALIOTIDAE 
Genus Haliotis Linne 1758 

Haliotis cracherodi Leach Black Abalone 

Plate zf 

Coos Bay, Oregon, to Lower California. 

6 inches in length, oval, and fairly deep. Outer surface smoothish, except for coarse growth lines. Usually 5 to 8 holes are open. External color 
bluish to greenish black. Interior pearly-white. A fairly abundant, edible 
species although not fished commercially to any great extent. A littoral species which clings to rocks between tide marks. Some shells may lack the 
holes (unnecessarily named H. c. holzneri Hemphill, H. c. imperforata Dall 
and H. c. lusus Finlay). A subspecies, H. c. calif orniensis Swainson, occurs 
on Guadalupe Island and is characterized by 1 2 to 16 very small holes. H. c. 
bonita Orcutt is the same as this subspecies. H. c. splendidula Williamson is 
the typical cracherodi. 

Haliotis rufescens Swainson Red Abalone 

Plate 2 a 

Northern California to Lower California. 

10 to 12 inches in length, oval, rather flattened. Outer surface rather 
rough, dull brick-red with a narrow red border around the edge of the shell. 
Interior iridescent blues and greens, with a large central muscle scar. 3 to 4 



HALIOTIDAE 93 

holes are open. Fished commercially below 20 feet, especially between Monterey and Point Conception. The legal minimum size for sportsmen is 7 
inches, and the catch is limited to 5 specimens per person per day. This is 
a popular food and, when polished on the outside, makes an attractive mantel 
piece. 

Haliotis corrugata Gray Pink Abalone 

Plate 2C 

Monterey, California, to Lower California. 

5 to 7 inches in length, almost round, fairly deep, with a scalloped edge 
