simple principles are followed, this type of housing will bring more ,oy and 
less work than any other system. It is not only neater, more compact and 



Collecting American Seashells 65 

equally as attractive as the display type, but it also permits the collector to 
locate any specimen quickly and add new material with a minimum of rearranging. The simplicity, uniformity and mobility of equipment, such as 
drawers, trays, labels and vials, and the use of the biological or systematic 
order of arrangement are the essence of a good collection. 

The choice of cabinet and style of drawers will be limited, of course, 
by the collector's pocketbook. The accompanying designs are the result of 
many years of observing private and institutional cabinets, and they are 
offered here as an ideal toward which you can strive. 

If the cabinet is made in a roughly oblong shape and is about tableheight, additional cabinets may some day be set alongside for desk space or 
set on top of each other without causing the top drawers to be too high to 
reach. Pine, basswood or any of th^ whitewoods may be used. It has been 
reported that certain oaks have a detrimental effect on shells which have 
been stored away for years. It is best to have a cabinet door which swings 
open all the way (i8o degrees), although so hinged that the drawers may 
still be pulled out when it is open only 90 degrees. Some students prefer the 
type of door which lifts off. 

The ideal cabinet unit has the following dimensions: outside measurements, height 40" (or 80") ^ width 22'', depth 32''. Runners for drawers, 30'' 
long. If wooden, %'' X %" and set 2^4" apart. If galvanized sheet iron, 
2%'' wide and bent along the midline to form an L. Inside measurements, 
wooden drawers 20" X 30" and i%". No runners or handles are necessary 
on the drawers. 

All cardboard trays to hold specimens should be %'' in depth, and all 
their other outside dimensions should be multiples of the smallest type of tray. 
This unit may be iK'" X 2", the next largest tray 3'' X 2", then 3'' X 4", 
then 4/^2'' X 6", and the largest of all 8'' X 9''. It is inadvisable to have more 
than five sizes of trays, since this complicates curating and the making or 
ordering of future stocks. Odd-sized trays make neat arrangement impossible. Cardboard trays covered with glossv-white enameled paper may be 
purchased in any large city, or a simple style may be made by cutting out 
and folding pieces of shirtboard as shown in our illustration. The corners 
are held together by adhesive paper or butcher's tape. The various sets, or 
lots as they are called, of each species should be placed in the trays and 
arranged in the drawer from left to right, beginning at the front. Many 
students separate the species or genera by turning over an empty box which 
may bear a label indicating the genus or species. 

Small e^lass vials without necks are used to hold smaller specimens. Cotton is best for plugging the vials, since corks are expensive, are difficult to 
obtain for various-sized vials and eventually deteriorate. When a lot consists 
of a hundred or more small specimens which will not easily go into vials, it is 



66 American Se ash ells 

convenient to use a covered box 3'' X 4'' and 2" deep. The label should be 
pasted on the lower left corner of the lid. A duplicate label or a slip of card 
bearing the catalog number should be placed in the box. Some people can 
afford to have glass-covered boxes. 

A catalog is most essential, and its single purpose is to prevent the loss 
