they bear eight shelly plates. For those who wish to excel in a more serious 
study of a relatively small class of mollusks, no more inviting series of species 
awaits the collector than our chitons of the rocky shores. They are dealt 
with in this book in some detail, for no popular shell book has hitherto attempted to open the doors to this supposedly "difficult and poorly known" 
group. 

There are nearly fifty species in our Atlantic waters and perhaps twice 
that number on the Pacific Coast, and yet this represents fewer species 
than are found in the single family of Wentletraps or Epitonium. Some 
private collectors, such as the late Dr. R. B. Bales, were able in a few years 
to make larg^er and finer collections of Florida chitons than are found even 



Lives of the Other Molliisks 51 

now in our leading museums. Hitherto unknown species await the enthusiastic speciahst in chitons. 

Except for the more easily recognized and common species, such as 
the Pacific Coast Katherina tunicata and A7mcula stelleri, most identifications require a simple understanding of the various parts of the shells and 
the patience to remove one or two of the eight valves for observation under 
a hand lens. Tourist collectors have little time to devote to the special but 
simple methods of collecting and preserving chitons, and unless they are 
willing to take to the shore a bucket, penknife, some thin slabs of wood or 
small glass plates and some soft twine, it w ould be best for them to concentrate their searches on the olives and cowries. 

No one man has done more for the encouragement of chiton collecting 
in America than Dr. S. Stillman Berry of Redlands, Cahfomia, and we cannot do better than to follow his simple directions. Curled-up specimens 
in collections signify ignorance of methods or lack of time while in the 
field. The chitons are easily flipped from the rock surfaces by quickly inserting a knife blade beneath the edge of the animal. If the chiton is then 
quickly transferred to the wet surface of a piece of shingle or glass of the 
appropriate width, it may be possible to flatten the creature before it curls 
into a ball. Wood and chiton should be tightly wound with twine or strips 
of cotton cloth, so that the animal will die in this flattened position. The 
bound chiton may be soaked in 60 to 80 percent alcohol for an hour or more, 
or in fresh water, for killing. Unbind, scrape the meat away from the underside, being careful not to damage the outer rim or girdle. Rewrap on the 
wood and set in the hot sun or oven to dry thoroughly. If scientific study 
is to be done at a later date, it is best to keep a few specimens permanently 
in a jar of about 70 percent alcohol. When specimens roll up before they 
can be straightened against your piece of wood, they may be dropped into 
the bucket of sea water where they will eventually straighten out and allow 
a second attempt of transfer. 

Habitats of chitons are usually specialized for each species, some being 
found only on the underside of rocks between the tide levels, others on 
wave-dashed headlands, a few in tidepools, others only in deeper waters 
off-shore. Phiiia pen shells recently cast ashore often have tiny chitons attached on the outside of the shell. Those who do not have dredging facilities 
may acquire the latter species through exchange or by purchase from several 
of our excellent shell dealers. A watchful eye and variation in collecting 
localities will soon bring familiarization with the various habitats of most 
of the species. 



52 



A7/ierica?i Seashells 

