HOW THEY BREATHE 

Oddly enough, the gills of the bivalves are not primarily used for respiration, despite their conspicuous size. As has been noted, their main function 
is in connection with feeding. Some experts deny their role as respiratory 
organs entirely, claiming that the mantle with its extremely effective blood 
supply serves as the main place of oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange. 
It has been found that blood coming from the mantle to the heart is completely charged with oxygen received from the sea water. Undoubtedly, 
however, the gills do absorb oxygen to some extent. Indirectly, the gills 
are extremely useful in respiration, since they produce the all-important 
currents which bring in oxygen and remove carbon dioxide dissolved in the 
water. 



Life of the Cla?ns 39 

A certain amount of respiration may take place even when the valves 
of certain bivalves are completely shut during exposure to dryness or to 
heat from the sun. What little air may be trapped within the mantle cavity 
of the animal is soon used up. Oxygen is then obtained anerobically (without contact with air) by cleavage of reserve glycogen substances stored in 
the clam's tissues. Carbon dioxide builds up and is dissolved in the fluid 
in the mantle cavity, and the resulting increase in acidity may dissolve or 
etch away portions of the shell. Shells of oysters and the <tname>Patella limpets</tname> 
vv^hich are kept dry on the rocky coast for unusually long periods show 
considerable etching on the inside. Shells of the Date Mussels {<tname>Lithophaga</tname>), 
which live in a small volume of water in their rock burrows, are etched in 
this manner, while those specimens which live in the same volume of wellaerated water are not etched. 

Bivalves can be forced to cease respiration for several days without 
succumbing, but they are very susceptible to polluted waters and excess 
amounts of silt. The "red tide" caused severe destruction to the marine fauna 
on the west coast of Florida in 1946, and for several years afterward the 
"shelling" on famous Sanibel Island was little better than it is on Coney 
Island Beach, New York. "Red tides" have occurred from time to time in 
California, Washington State, Japan, Austraha and elsewhere. They are caused 
by an unusual increase in the numbers of single-celled dinoflagellates, <tname>Gonyaiilax</tname>. It is believed that billions of these organisms not only deplete the 
oxygen supply but also clog the gills of fish, moUusks and other animals which 
die in vast numbers and further befoul the ocean. Fortunately, these "red 
tides" spend themselves out, and the coastal waters return to normal in a 
few years. 

Another species of <tname>Gojiyaulax</tname> (<tname>G. catanella</tname>) may be ingested by mussels and clams and, although it does no harm to the mollusk, it is highly toxic 
to humans who may eat the infected shellfish. A number of deaths have 
occurred on both of our coasts from this type of mussel poisoning. There 
is no way of distinguishing poisonous from sound mussels by their appearance, and heat does not destroy the poison. Mussel poisoning occurs along 
the California coast from May 15 to October 15. There is another such 
center in Nova Scotia. 

Among the various schemes of classification of the bivalves, the type 
of gill structure has been used by many students of phylogeny (the study 
of molluscan ancestral trees), such as Lankester, Pelseneer, Ridewood and 
others. Opponents to this system, such as Neumayr, Munier-Chalmas, Dall, 
Cotton and others, have based their classification on the hinges of the shell 
valves. Neither system is without its weaknesses, and in some modern schemes 
the two systems are employed together. 

There are four main types of gills: (i) Protobranch, in which the gills 



