

408 Avurican Seas he Us 

creamy-white with faint mauve stripes on the escutcheon. Interior white, 
commonly with a purple splotch at the posterior end. This is a common 
shore species, formerly called C. succincta Val. 

Chione californiensis undatella Sowerby Frilled Californian Venus 

Plate 3ii 

San Pedro, California, to northern South America. 

Differing from calif orniensis in being more inflated, usually with more 
numerous and more closely spaced, thinner concentric ribs, and retaining 
mauve-brown color splotches in the adults. Very common. Aiany workers 
consider this a full species, and apparently additional field study is necessary. 

Chione fluctifraga Sowerby Smooth Pacific Venus 

Plate 31k 

San Pedro, California, to the Gulf of California. 

lYo inches in height, slightly longer, moderately compressed, subtrigonal; 
radial grooves or ribs strong at the posterior third and at the anterior quarter 
of the shell; central area with stronger, low, rather wide, concentric ribs which 
may have coarse, half-moon-shaped beads. Lunule not well-defined; escutcheon not well seen and not sunken nor smooth as in calif orniensis. Exterior 
creamy-white, semi-glossy, rarely stained with blue-gray. Interior white 
with purple splotches near the muscle scars or on the teeth. Not uncommon 
along the sandy shores in southern localities. 

Section Timoclea Brown 1827 
Chione griis Holmes Gray Pygmy Venus 

Plate 32! 

North Carolina to Key West to Louisiana. 

/4 to % inch in length, oblong, with 30 to 40 fine, radial ribs which are 
crossed by very fine, concentric threads. The posterior dozen ribs are cut 
along their length by a very fine groove. Dorsal margin of right valve fimbriated and overlapping the left valve. Lunule narrow, heart-shaped, colored 
brown. Escutcheon very narrow and sunken. Exterior colored a dull-gray, 
but some Florida specimens tend to be whitish, pinkish or even orange. Interior glossy-white with purplish brown area at the posterior end. Pnrple 
color on hinge at both ends. Commonly dredged in shallow water. 

Chione pygnmea Lamarck White Pygmy Venus 

Southeast Florida and the West Iiidies. 



VENERIDAE 409 

% to % inch in length, similar to grns, but with prominent scales, 4 to 5 
brown, zebra stripes on the escutcheon, with a white lunule, and the teeth 
purple only on the posterior half of the hinge. Beaks commonly pink. Interior all white. Fairly common in shallow water. 

Subgenus Lirophora Conrad 1863 
