354 Ainerican Seashelh 

Genus Septifer Recluz 1848 
Septifer bifurcatus Reeve Bifurcate Mussel 

Crescent City, California, to Gulf of California. 

I to 2 inches in size, subtriangular in outline, inflated. With a couple 
of dozen strong, wavy radial ribs. Inner margin crenulated. Periostracum 
black, although often worn white between the ribs. Interior pearly-white, 
often stained bluish brown on one half of the inner side. The subspecies 
obsoletus Dall from San Diego is mostly black on the interior and is a 
quite elongate form. 

Genus Mytilus Linne 1758 
Mytilus edulis Linne Blue Mussel 

Plate 35m 

Arctic Ocean to South Carolina. Alaska to CaHfornia. 

1 to 3 inches in length, no ribs but often with coarse growth lines. 
Ventral margin often curved. Color blue-black with eroded areas of chalky 
purplish. Periostracum varnish-like. Interior slightly pearly-white with 
deep purple-blue border. Occasionally, specimens have radial rays of brownyellow. Very common in New England. Sometimes found in more southerly waters attached to floating wood. 

Mytilus edulis diegensis Coe 1946 (Northern California to Lower California) is indistinguishable from specimens of edulis found in Alaska and 
New England, and probably only represents an ecological or physiological 
race (see W. R. Coe, 1946). 

Mytilus calif ornianus Conrad Calif ornian Mussel 

Plate 19P 

Aleutian Islands to Socorro Island, Mexico. 

2 to 10 inches in length, thick, inflated; ventral margin nearly straight; 
with less than a dozen or so, fairly broad, weak radial ribs which are best 
seen on the middle part of the shell. Growth lines very coarse. An abundant species found between tides attached to rocks. 

Genus Musculus Roding 1798 

Mussel-like shells with the sculpturing divided into three oblique areas, 
the center one being smooth or almost so, and the two end areas having 
radial ribs. The ligament is much longer than that in Crenella. These are 
moderately deep-water clams. Mantle folded in front into a wide, incurrent 



MYTILIDAE 355 

siphon and behind into a conical excurrent siphon. Foot strap-shaped. This 
genus was formerly known as Modiolaria Beck 1838. Hinge finely dentate. 



Musculus niger Gray Black Musculus 

Plate 2 8g 

