experience a male phase in which functional sperm is produced while the 
clam is only a few months old. Following this initial male phase, about half 
of the population turns female to produce eggs, while the other half remains 
male. No further sex change takes place. 

Sex reversal is apparently very popular among some of the oysters, 
such as our native Pacific Coast Ostrea liirida. In this species there is a series 
of male and female phases. There may be three changes within a single 
year. Usually the male phase comes on first. Alternating sexuality also 
occurs in our Atlantic Oyster {Crassostrea virginica), but the early sex organs 
are capable of turning toward either male- or femaleness. It is not known, at 
present, to what extent environmental conditions determine the direction 
of sex chan^-e. It has been shown, however, that under unfavorable circumstances, when circulation of water is poor and the food supply low, there are 
more female oysters in a colony. When conditions improve, the percentage 
of males increases considerably. 

Thorough studies have now been made to show that normally no sex 
reversal occurs and that the sexes are separate and of equal numbers in a 
given colony in the following species: Modiolus deviissiis, Mytihis calif ornianus, Septifer bifurcatus, Anomia sivtplex, Mytihis edtilis, Fetricola pholadiforfnis, Donax goiildi, Mya arenaria (Soft-shell Clam) and the Angel Wing, 
Barnea costata. 

The number of eggs produced by the female bivalve may vary considerably depending upon the species and environmental conditions. Species 
which retain the fertilized eggs within their bodies for further development 
invariably produce fewer eggs than those species which discharge them into 
the water. The oysters are probably among the greatest molluscan producers 
of eggs. C. R. Elsey estimates that one female Crassostrea gigas of Japan 
and our northwest Pacific Coast may discharge into the water each year 
eggs numbering looo to the eighth power. If all survived in five generations, 
the aggregate would be large enough to make eight worlds like ours. Needless to say, enemies and unfavorable conditions kill off most of the young. 

In contrast to this prodigious eflFort on the part of the oyster, the Dwarf 
Turton Clam (Turtonia iimmta) deposits only 12 to 20 eggs which are 
neatly encased in oval tgg masses of gelatinous material. While most species 



42 



American Seashells 



of Nucula Nut Clams discharge their eggs freely into the water, one New 
England species, N. delphinodoiita, deposits from 20 to 70 tiny, opaque 
brown eggs in a gelatinous sac which is attached to the posterior end of the 
valves of the shell. Small bits of debris and mud stick to the outside of this 
sac, which probably serve as a camouflage. Many bivalves keep the developing young within the mantle cavity or in the meshes of the gills until the 
tiny shells are quite well advanced in development. With the aid of a highpowered lens one may readily see tiny juvenile clams inside the translucent 
adult shells of such genera as Gemma, Fardstarte, Psephidia, Transennella, 
Kellia, Lepton and Lasaea. The odd Dwarf Milner Clam of California {MilJieria minima) incubates about 50 young in a peculiar external pouch. The 
valves are indented on the ventral margins to form a neat exterior pocket. 
To prevent the young from dropping out, a sheath of periostracum is 
stretched over the entrance. When the small clam shells have grown sufficiently to fend for themselves, the sheath is "unzipped," and all tumble out 
into the free world. 




