Acmaea leucopleura Gmelin Dwarf Suck-On Limpet 

Plate 17b 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

Mi to V2 inch in maximum diameter, high-conic, with numerous, alternating black and white rays. The black rays divide into two near the edge 
of the shell. Radial riblets weak, usually black. Interior white, often stained 
brown or black on the callus. Frequently found adhering to the underside 
of large gastropods such as Livona pica. Common. A. cubensis Reeve and 
A. sbjiplex Pilsbry are probably this species. 

AciJiaea jamaicensis Gmelin Jamaica Limpet 

Plate 17c 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

V'z inch in maximum diameter, moderately high, with roundish sides, 
thick, with about 15 to 20 rather large, rounded, white radial ribs on a blackbrown background. Sometimes completely white. Interior white, occasionTROCHIDAE 107 

ally with a black-spotted edge and with a thickened central callus which is 
light-brown to black. A. albicosta C. B. Adams and A. fungoides Roding are 
the same. Moderately common in the West Indies, occasionally found on the 
Lower Florida Keys. 



Fajnily LEPETIDAE 
Genus Lepeta Gray 1842 

Small, flattish, uncoiled shells which are "hat-shaped," similar to Acmaea, 
but the embryonic nucleus is spiral; the animal has no external gills and the 
proboscis is produced into a labial process on each side. The radula has a 
median tooth, which in Acmaea is absent. 

Lepeta caeca Miiller Northern Blind Limpet 

Plate 17J 

Arctic Seas to Cape Cod, Massachusetts. 

Va: to Y2 inch in maximum diameter, moderately conic, with straight 
sides, oval-elongate in outline. Rather fragile, dull-white to brownish externally and with fine, granulose, crowded, radial threads. Interior white or 
tinged with pink. Apex usually eroded. A common cold-water species often 
dredged in shallow water off New England. 



Superb amily TROCHACEA 

Faiitily TROCHIDAE (Top Shells) 

Subfaimly MARGARITINAE 

Genus Margarites Gray 1847 

Subgenus Margarites s. str. 

Margarites costalts Gould Northern Rosy Margarite 
