

ARCTICIDAE 381 

shells are smooth and round. The hollow is covered over by a sheath of periostracum. Hinge of adult with large triangular tooth in left valve which fits 
snugly between tM^o smaller ones in the right valve. Found in shallow water 
under stones. External sculpture of scaled ribs and concentric ridges. Color 
light-brown. Shell thick, translucent glaze inside. 

Fimtily CORBICULIDAE 
Genus Folymesoda Rafinesque 1820 

Folymesoda caroliniana Bosc Carolina Marsh Clam 

Plate 3obb 

Virginia to north half of Florida and Texas. 

I to I % inches in length, about as high, subtriangular in outline, rather 
obese and with a strong shell. Exterior of smoothish shell is covered with 
a very fuzzy or minutely scaled periostracum which is mostly glossy-brown 
and rather thin. Interior white, rarely stained with purple. Each hinge with 
3 small, almost vertical, equally sized teeth below the beaks and each hinge 
with I anterior and posterior lateral. Ligament external, long, narrow and 
dark-brown. Common at the mouths of rivers where the influence of the 
tides is felt. 

Genus Pseudocyrena Bourguignat 1854 
Pseiidocyrena fioridana Conrad Florida Marsh Clam 

Plate 3oy 

Key West to northern Florida and to Texas. 

I inch in length, quite similar to Folymesoda caroliniana, but more variable in shape (ovalish to elongate), without the fuzzy periostracum, with its 
beaks never eroded away and with 2 long, slender anterior and posterior 
laterals. Exterior with irregular growth lines, dull dirty-white, commonly 
flushed with purple or pink. Interior white with a wide margin of deep 
purple or entirely purple. Brackish warm water in mud. Common. 

Family ARCTICIDAE 

Genus Arctica Schumacher 1817 

(Cyprina Lamarck) 

Arctica islandica Linne Ocean Quahog 

Plate 32f 

Newfoundland to oflF Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. 

3 to 5 inches in length, almost circular in outline, rather strong, porcellaneous, but commonly chalky. Exterior covered with a brown to black, 
rather thick periostracum. The posterior laterals and the absence of a pallial 



382 American Seashells 

sinus will distinguish this clam from the true Quahogs (see Mercenaria 
