ready for use. Most shells may be picked up by hand, and the more fragile 
ones put in matchboxes or thumb-sized vials. When a breeze is blowing 
wrinkles on the surface of the water, it is impossible to see the bottom, and 
many collectors use a glass-bottomed bucket or merely a diving mask floated 
on the surface to clear a view. A square or oblong bucket about a foot each 
way and ten or twelve inches high may be made of light wood and the 
glass set in the bottom and held in place with a thin layer of white lead and 
strips of molding or quarter-rounds. If the inside is painted dull black reflections on the glass will be held to a minimum. For a clearer view wet the 
inside of the glass occasionally. The water bucket is useful to those who 
enjoy diving for shells. It not only serves as a friendly support between 
dives, but may be used as a collecting receptacle. Diving masks or water 
goggles are indispensible for collecting many species which are normally 
found in waters down to twenty feet in depth. 

A fine-mesh wire screen bought in any kitchen utensil store can be put 
to excellent use in sandy or muddy areas where many interesting small shells 
live. Screening for mollusks is a favorite pastime with many collectors, and 
many types and sizes of screens have been designed. Copper mesh should be 
used if you plan to screen over a period of a few months. 

Forceps are sometimes useful in getting small shells out of rock crevices, 
but in general it does not pay to search individually for minute shells. Mass 
screening or taking a large bagful of bay bottom or beach drift home for 
leisurely sorting in the evenings brinos richer rewards. Shaking clumps of 
seaweed over the screen often gives encouraging results, for many uncommon 



Collecting A7nerican Seashells 59 

species are found nowhere else. Breaking apart coral blocks often reveals 
interesting rock-boring clams. 



DREDGING AND TRAPPING 

There are few active shell collectors who have not given serious thought 
to trying their hand at dredging. This is especially true if one has spent several summers in one locality and acquired a large and representative collection of the littoral and intertidal species. Over half of our American species 
prefer to live below the low-tide mark and, although storms occasionally 
cast up samples of this rich fauna on our beaches, trapping and dredging are 



SAFETY REuEftSE: 

OF TyJlNE oa STR\N& 



/a- INCH IftOM 
YOKES 



UONaER 
YoKt 



