color. Like Gibberulina ovuHforims, but the aperture is not so long and has 
microscopic, spiral teeth inside the thin, curled-in outer lip. Columella with 
4 oblique folds. Alias M. lavalleaiia Orb. Common in shallow water to 40 
fathoms. The subgenus Granula Jousseaume 1874 is this subgenus. 

Persicula jeivetti Carpenter Jewett's Marginella 

Monterey, California, to Lower California. 

/4 inch (5,0 mm.) in length, snow-white, glossy, rather stout. Apex 
smoothed over and obscured. Outer lip smooth, slightly curled inward. Columella with 3 or 4 rather distinct, slanting, spiral folds with several smaller 
ones higher on the columella. Common from low tide to several fathoms. 

There are 3 similar, small and white species which are very difficult to 
separate; and according to some workers, size and proportionate dimensions 
are of significance: 

F. regzilaris Cpr. (Regular Marginella), Monterey to Lower California. 

Length 3.3 mm., ratio of diameter to length i to 1.5. Low tide to 

30 fathoms. Common. 
P. subtrigona Cpr. (Triangular Marginella), Monterey to Lower Cahfornia. Length 3.5 mm., ratio of diameter to length i to 1.25. Low 

tide to 50 fathoms. Uncommon. 
P. politula Dall (Polite Aiarginella), Santa Barbara to Lower California. 

Length 3.0 mm., ratio of diameter to length i to 2. Low tide to 20 

fathoms. Uncommon. 

Genus Hyalina Schumacher 18 17 
Subgenus Voharina Hinds 1844 

Hyaliva avena Valenciennes Orange-banded Marginella 

Plate I ip; figure 56i 

North Carolina to Key West and the West Indies. 

M to % inch in length, slender; spire pointed, but short. Outer lip curled 
in, white and smooth. Aperture narrow above, wide below. 3 to 4 slanting, 
columellar teeth. Color whitish, cream or yellowish with 4 to 6 spiral bands 
of subdued orange-tan. A moderately common, shallow-water species. The 
pink variety, especially common in Yucatan has been given the name beyerleana Bern. 

Hyalina veliei Pilsbry Velie's Marginella 

West coast of Florida. 



MARGINELLIDAE 2 59 

% inch in length, somewhat like our figure 566, but with a higher, more 
pointed spire. Shell quite thin for a Marginella; color yellowish to whitish 
and somewhat translucent. Outer lip thickened, pushed in at the middle and 
white in color. Columella with 4 very distinct folds. Common in shallow 
water inside dead Pinna shells on mangrove mud flats. 

