is spent in securing food. The oyster, for instance, spends from seventeen 
to twenty hours of each 24-hour period in taking in water for the purpose 
of feeding and breathing. Individuals living in the intertidal zone and left 
dry by receding tides or exposed to water heavily charged with silt spend 
considerably less time feeding. During cold periods, when the water temperature falls below 40° F, the oyster goes into a state of hibernation, and it 
ceases to feed because of the lack of coordination of the ciliary motion along 
the surface of the gills. Under ideal conditions, the Giant Pacific Oyster 
(Crassostrea gigas) filters 5% quarts of water per hour at 77° F (i quart at 
34° F). In a year, the total amount would fill a 1 0,000-gallon tank car. 

Perhaps the most startling modification of obtaining food nutrients is 
exhibited in the giant Tridacna clams of the Indo-Pacific reefs. These clams 
literally "farm" colonies of brown-colored algal plants (Zooxajitbellae) in 
their huge, exposed mantle edges. Unlike most clams, the Tridacnas spread 
their valves open and expose their mantles to as much sunlight as possible 
for the benefit of these single-celled seaweeds. In addition, small, fleshy 
tubercles grow on the surface of the mantle in which are located lens-like, 
clear cells. Sunlight can thus penetrate down into the flesh and be diffused 
into areas which otherwise would not receive enough light for the algae. 
Surplus plant cells are engulfed by phagocyte blood cells of the clam and 
transported to the digestive gland for absorption as food. The giant clams 
also feed in the conventional gill-to-mouth manner and are therefore not 
entirely dependent on the algae. The algae, however, must have a clam 
as a host in order to survive. This peculiar symbiosis is found to a lesser 
extent in the Bear Paw Clam (Hippopus), the Heart Cockle (Corculum) and 
the nudibranch, Phestilla. This phenomenon is not to be confused with the 
pathologic entry of the parasitic blue-green algae in fresh-water mussels, 
Anodonta and Unio. 

While the gills are the main organs for catching, sorting and transporting 
food in the majority of clams, they are limited to respiratory functions in 
a few groups. The smallest and most inefficient gills are found in the primitive protobranchs {Nuctila, Nuculana, etc.) and in the small, highly evolved 



38 American Se ash ells 

septibranch clams (Poromya and Cuspidaria). In order to make up for the 
loss of efficient food-gathering gills, the palps near the mouth have become 





Figure 14. The pair of proboscides in the Nut Clams, Nucula, sweep up food and 
transport it to the mouth. The gills are not used in gathering food as in the majority 
of clams, a, X5; b and c, ends of the proboscides. Xio. (After K. Hirasaka 1927.) 

very specialized. In the Nucula Nut Clams, a pair of strong, muscular, contractile organs serve as food gatherers. These proboscides are very flexible, 
moving about freely in all directions. Food material is picked up by the tip 
and is carried swiftly down a large groove in the proboscis to a palp pouch 
and then to the stomach by means of minute cilia. E. S. Morse very aptly 
described the action of these appendages in our Atlantic Nut Clam, Nucula 
proxima: 

Without seeing the behaviour of these appendages it is difficult to appreciate the remarkable action of these feeding organs. The graceful movements of these beautiful and translucent appendages, exceeding the length 
of the shell, sweeping rapidly the bottom of the dish in which they are 
confined, or even turned back and feeding on the surface of the shell, are 
a most curious and interesting sight. 

