Callocardia texasiana Dall Texas Venus 

Plate 32k; figure aSe 

Northwest Florida to Texas. 

1/4 to 3 inches in length, % as high. Externally resembling Fitar morrhuana, but much more elongate, having the beaks rolled in under themselves, 
and with a more elongate, faint lunule. The posterior cardinal is S-shaped 
in the right valve. Uncommon, if not rare. Found on the beaches, but its 
biology and habits are unknown. 

Genus Amiantis Carpenter 1863 
Amiantis callosa Conrad Pacific White Venus 

Santa Monica, California, to south Mexico. 

3 to 4% inches in length, longer than high, beaks pointing anteriorly, 
shell hard, heavy, glossy and with neat concentric ribs. Lunule small, heartshaped and pressed in slightly under the beaks. Anterior end round. Color 
solid ivory. A very attractive, fairly common species living just below tide 
line on sandy bottoms in the open surf. Commonly washed ashore alive after 



VENERIDAE 417 

storms between Seal Beach and Huntington Beach. Once known as C. 
nobilis Reeve. 

Genus Saxidomus Conrad 1837 

Shell large, slightly gaping posteriorly, hinge with 4 or 5 cardinal teeth 
in the right valve, 4 in the left. Pallial sinus long and fairly narrow. 

Saxidojims nuttalli Conrad Common Washington Clam 

Plate 31I 

Humboldt Bay, California, to Lower California. 

3 to 4 inches in length, oblong, with the beaks nearer the anterior end; 
heavy, with coarse, crowded, concentric ribs. Color a dull, dirty, reddish 
brown to gray with rust stains. Interior glossy-white, commonly with a 
flush of purple at the posterior margins. No lunule. Ligament large. Valves 
slightly gaping posteriorly. Young specimens less than 2 inches are thinshelled, somewhat glossy and with pretty, mauve, radial streaks on the dorsal 
edge, both in front and behind the beaks. A very common species which is 
edible. Also called the Butter Clam. 

Saxidomus gigantea Deshayes Smooth Washington Clam 

Aleutian Islands to Monterey, California. 

Possibly this is only an ecologic variation or an example of a geographical 
gradient within a species. It is similar to typical 7JUttalIi, but generally lacks 
the rust-stain color and rarely, if ever, develops the prominent concentric 
ridges. This is the commonest and best food clam in Alaska. 

Subfamily DOSINIINAE 

Genus Dosinia Scopoh 1777 

