Plate 35) 

North Carolina to the West Indies. 

% inch in length, rather elongate with numerous fine axial ribs; colored 
a yellowish brown to dark-brown outside, and inside mottled with a metallic 



MYTILIDAE 35 3 

purplish and white. Anterior end has two very tiny purplish teeth. Beyond 
the ligament (posterior end) there are 5 to 6 very tiny, equal-sized teeth on 
the edge of the shell. Compare with B. citrinus, which is more elongate. 

Brachidontes stearnsi Pilsbry and Raymond Stearns' Mussel 

Santa Barbara, California, to Oaxaca, Mexico. 

/4 to I inch in length, obtusely carinate, with numerous coarse, beaded, 
radial ribs which bifurcate. Color brownish purple on the dorsal half, strawyellow to brownish yellow on the flattened ventral half. Hinge on dorsal 
edge with about a dozen very tiny bar-like teeth. Usually found in colonies 
in crevices of stones. Two small clams, Lasaea cistula Keen and L. subviridis 
Dall, attach themselves to the byssus of this species. Do not confuse B. 
stearjisi with Septifer bifurcams, with which it often lives. B. multijormis 
Carpenter and B. adamsianus Dunker are closely related species, if not mere 
forms, found in the Panamic province. 

Subgenus Ischadiwn Jukes-Brown 1905 
Brachidontes recurviis Rafinesque Hooked Mussel 

Plate 3511 

Cape Cod to the West Indies. 

I to 2% inches in length, flattish, rather wide, with numerous wavy 
axial ribs. Color outside a dark grayish black, inside a purplish to rosy 
brown with a narrow blue-gray border. At the umbonal end there are 3 to 
4 extremely small, elongate teeth on the edge of the shell. The anterior end 
of the shell is strongly hooked. This ■s\as known as M. hamatus Say and has 
sometimes been placed in the genus Mytilus. 

Genus Amygdahnn Megerle von Miihlfeld 181 1 

Shell thin, very smooth, often with colored, cobwebby designs. These 
clams build nests for themselves with a copious supply of byssal threads. 

Amygdaluni papyria Conrad Paper Mussel 

Plate 28i 

Texas and Maryland to Florida. 

I to 1% inches in length, elongate, smooth, glistening, fragile, and 
colored a delicate two-tone of bluish green and soft yellowish brown. Interior iridescent-white. The ligament is very weak and thin. A. sagittata 
Rehder, sometimes dredged off^ Florida and Mississippi, is very shiny, ivorywhite, half of each valve with fine, gray, cobwebby streaks. The umbo is 
reinforced inside by a very small, smooth column or rib. 



