and prominent, often with numerous tiny axial lamellae between them. 6 to 
8 small teeth on the inside of the outer lip. Color variable, whitish to rustybrown, sometimes banded. Periostracum dark-brown and fuzzy. Siphonal 
canal usually sealed over. Very common from northern California north. 
Littoral to 30 fathoms. 



<tname>Ocenebra gracilli?7ta Stearns</tname> 



Graceful Dwarf Triton 

Plate 24m 



Monterey, California, to the Gulf of California. 

Ys inch in length, similar to lurida in shape; with 5 whorls, those in the 
spire weakly cancellate with the axial ribs the strongest. Last whorl without 



218 American Seas bells 

axial ribs, except for a rather strong, rounded varix behind the outer hp. Last 
whorl with about a dozen or so Hght-brown, spotted, spiral threads over a 
background of light yellowish gray. 3 to 5 fairly large teeth on the inside of 
the outer lip, Siphonal canal short, sealed over in adults. Periostracum thin, 
fuzzy, grayish with mauve-brown undertones. Interior of aperture light 
mauve-brown, usually with a whitish, spiral band on the middle of the body 
whorl. <tname>O. stearTisi Hemphill</tname> is the same. Very common in rocky rubble and 
on wharf pilings. 

<tname>Ocenebra circumtexta Stearns</tname> Circled Dwarf Triton 

Figure 49b 

Moss Beach, California, to Lower California. 

% to I inch in length, spire V^ the length of the shell. Characterized by 
very strong, rough spiral cords (15 on the body whorl, 6 on the whorls 
above). Under a lens the cords are seen to consist of arched, crowded, raised 
axial lamellae. The cords are often cream-white with the interspaces blackbrown. Axial ribs wide, low, rounded and 7 to 9 per whorl. Some specimens 
are banded or have large, red-brown spots. A white form of this species was 
unnecessarily named citrica Dall. A very abundant species on rocks at low 
tide to 30 fathoms. 

<tname>Ocenebra poulsoni Carpenter</tname> Poulson's Dwarf Triton 

Plate 24k 

Santa Barbara, California, to Lower California. 

1 % to 2 inches in length; a sturdy shell with a semi-gloss finish. 8 to 9 
nodulated, rounded axial ribs per whorl crossed by numerous very fine, 
incised spiral lines and 4 or 5 larger, rounded, raised spiral cords. The latter 
make nodules on the ribs. Siphonal canal narrowly open. Periostracum thin, 
grayish or brownish and smoothish. When the periostracum is absent, the 
