
Monterey, California, to Panama. 

% inch in length, slightly obese, with the right valve more obese and 
overlapping the left valve on the ventral margin. Anterior end elliptical 
in outhne; posterior end coming to a blunt point. Beaks strong, close together and slightly nearer the posterior end. Shell porcellaneous, whitish 
gray and may be flushed with pinkish or purplish. Interior whitish, but 
commonly yellowish with purple-red staining. Sculpture of weak, concentric crrowth lines which are less noticeable toward the smoothish beaks. 
Common in some localities in sand and rocky, rubbly beaches to 25 fathoms. 
C. rosea Williamson is merely a pink color phase of this species. 

Corbula porcella Dall Ribbed Western Corbula 

Santa Rosa Island, California, to Panama. 

V4 to Ys inch in length, similar to luteola, but much fatter, chalky, gray, 
and with much stronger concentric riblets. The right valve overlaps the left 
valve very prominently on the ventral margin. Moderately common from 
shallow water to 53 fathoms. 

Fa7nily GASTROCHAENIDAE 
Genus ROCELLARIA Blainville 1828 

Both valves fairly thin, somewhat chalky in substance, and equal in size 
and shape. The anterior gape is very large. Beaks very near the anterior end. 
Hinge-teeth obscure. These clams form flask-shaped excavations in the rocks 
which they line with calcareous material. When not protected by a burrow, 
they form a shelly tube to which debris is attached. Gastrochaena Spengler 
is another genus from the Indo-Pacific area (formerly Fistula7ia Brug., not 
Miiller) . 

Rocellaria hians Gmelin Atlantic Rocellaria 

North Carolina to Texas and the West Indies. 

% to % inch in length; valves rather spathate, with low, indistinct, fine, 
concentric ridges. Posterior end large and rounded. The entire anteriorventral end is widely open to accommodate the foot. Color white. Common 



460 American Se ash ells 

in soft coral rocks. Erroneously called c7meifor77iis Spengler which is an 
Indo-Pacific species (see E. Lamy, 1924). 

Rocellaria ovata Sowerby (Bermuda and the Atlantic Coast, rare) is 
very similar, but the beaks are at the very end of the valve, and the shell is 
more elongate. In hians, there is a very small, wing-like projection of the 
valve in front of the beak. 



Genus Spengleria Tryon 1861 

Similar to Rocellaria, but truncate at the posterior end where there are 
strong, concentric ribs. Beaks at the anterior third of the shell. 

Spengleria rostrata Spengler Atlantic Spengler Clam 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 
