in Winter Park, Florida. It is well worth visiting, for the collection is beautifully lighted and arranged and is instructively labeled. Of equal brilliance, 
the Simon de Marco collection of rarities is housed in the commercial Florida 
Marine Museum near Fort Myers, Florida. 



Collecting American Se ash ells 69 

Among the leading American collections that in the California Academy 
of Sciences in Golden Gate Park, San Francisco, stands foremost in western 
United States. It is a large and well-kept collection, supplemented by an 
excellent library. Drs. G. Dallas Hanna and Leo Hertlein have in the main 
been responsible for its successful growth. The Paleontology Collection at 
Stanford University contains a large series of recent and fossil mollusks. It 
is particularly strong in material from the Pacific northwest. Its present curator. Dr. Myra Keen, is one of our outstanding malacologists who specializes 
in marine bivalves. A very large collection of marine mollusks is housed at 
the San Diego Natural History Society, Balboa Park, San Diego. The 
Museum of Paleontology, University of California, Berkeley, also has a very 
large collection. 



CHAPTER VI 

How to Know 
American Seashells 



The satisfaction of gradually becoming master of a study and the enjoyment 
of devoting a full interest to one of the many fields of natural history, 
whether it be wild flowers, butterflies or seashells, are the two strongest 
motivations among naturalists in their search for new facts and additional 
specimens. "Knowing seashells" is not so much a state of knowledge, attained 
after so many years of study, as it is a continuous process of adding to our 
store of information and experience. Through personal observation, by taking advantage of what others have discovered and recorded, and by increasing our ability to identify species, we gradually become familiar with our 
mollusks. 

Whafs the name of that shell? Is it rare or covnnon? How does it 
live? Where cai2 1 find more and better specimens? These are four of the 
most frequently asked questions among shell collectors. Because people who 
are incurably or only mildly "shell-shocked" are continually asking for the 
names of shells, over three fourths of this book is devoted to the problem of 
recognizing and naming our American seashells. 

To know the name of a shell is in many ways to know the object itself. 
What we may gain in observation of the shell, the animal which builds it or 
the habits of the creature, we can, with its correct name, compare w^th the 
findings made by other students. "So this is Sozon's Cone!" transforms the 
shell in your collection into an object of rarity and opens the door to fascinating^ accounts of fatal, venomous cone shells or the tales of bygone shell 

70 



Honjo to Know American Seashells 71 

auctions. If <tname>Anachis avara</tname> is swarming over an oyster bed, no one takes 
particular note, but the mere mention of the Destructive Oyster Drill, <tname>Urosalpinx cinerea</tname>, brings the shell-fishery man to the scene to eliminate the pest. 

