

464 Ay/ierican Seasbelh 

common. John Q. Burch reports that the siphons have characteristic tubercles 
on their surface. Siphon cream, covered with a brownish periostracum at 
the base, the remainder studded with small bars of chitinous material, thus 
giving a warty appearance. 

Genus Nettastoviella Carpenter 1865 
Nettastomella rostrata Valenciennes Rostrate Piddock 

Puget Sound to San Diego, California. 

% inch in length, with a very large, oval gape posteriorly, and anteriorly 
with a long, pointed, smooth rostrum or snout which bends downward. 
Shell proper with widely spaced, delicate, high, concentric lamellae. Without accessory plates and apophyses. Found by breaking stones apart. Moderately common. 

Genus Parapholas Conrad 1849 
Farapholas californica Conrad Scale-sided Piddock 

Southern California. 

3 to 5 inches in length, oval-oblong, rotund, especially anteriorly. Posterior round in cross-section and gaping. Dorsal margin with 2 long, complicated, accessory plates. Ventral edge covered by one elongate plate. 
Anterior gape closed over by 2 thin, eggshell-like extensions. Sides of snout 
with foliated periostracum. Shell proper with a long, radial groove pushing 
in at the middle. Color grayish white. Interior with 2 long, descending, 
shelly rods under the middle of the hinge. Common. 

Genus Navea Gray 1851 
Navea subglobosa Gray Abalone Borer 

San Pedro to Monterey, California. 

/4 to % inch in size. Very obese and subglobular. Anterior end widely 
gaping with the thick edge of the valves coarsely denticulate. Commonly 
found boring in abalone shells (Haliotis). 

Genus Martesia Blainvillc 1824 
Martesia striata Linne Striate Martesia 

Plate 32W 

West Florida to Texas and the West Indies. 



TEREDINIDAE 465 

% to I ^ inches in length, elongate, moderately fragile, gaping at the 
posterior end and whitish in color. There is a faint radial groove from beak to 
ventral margin in each valve. Posterior to this groove, the shell is weakly 
sculptured with concentric growth lines. Anterior to the groove, there 
are crowded, finely denticulated riblets. Dorsal margins of valve joined by 
a long, narrow, fragile plate. Over the umbones there is a broadly rounded, 
somewhat heart-shaped, thick, calcareous plate. Anterior gape closed over 
by an egg-shell callus. Commonly found boring in wood. 

Martesia cuneijormis Say Wedge-shaped Martesia 

