tide. The Coquina Clam, Donax, is faced with much the same problem of 
making the most of high tides but, in contrast to the sedentary hfe of its 
oyster cousin, it leads a very active existence on the sandy beaches along the 
open ocean. It is an attractive sight when a scouring wave suddenly studs 
the white beach with dozens of brightly hued clams. The tumbling motion 
and sudden exposure to light act as a stimulus to the clam which instantly 
thrusts out its small muscular foot and rapidly pulls itself down into the 
sand again. During the three or four hours in which the waves are sweeping 
the middle and upper sections of the beach, the tiny clams may be uncovered 
and obliged to burrow down again several hundred times. 

While many clams prefer clean sand as a habitat, others are habitual 
mud-dwellers. The handsome Angel Wing, Barnea costata, is usually found 
in mud so soft and deep that Florida collectors find it extremely difficult to 
reach them. The Angel Wing is usually located one or two feet below the 
mud surface and maintains its connection with the bay's waters with its long 
siphon. Because of its popularity as a souvenir and collector's item, methods 
have been devised to collect them at high tide from a boat or barge. Powerful jets of water are forced through hoses, the mud is swept away from the 
clams, and then hand-nets are employed to gather them. In more shallow 
regions where a mixture of sand in the bay bottom permits walking, the 
exposed Angel Wings are gathered by hand at the next low tide. 

The majority of marine clams live in a substrate of sandy mud, but a 
few have become specialized to the extent of making burrows in exceedingly 
compact clay, as in the case of the Arctic Saxicave, Hiatella arctica, and 
the False Angel Wing, Petricola. A few groups such as the Date Mussels, 
Lithophaga, and the Piddocks, Pholas, burrow into corals, other shells or 
soft rocks such as sandstone and limestone. The shipworms, Teredo and 
Bankia, are expert at drilling out their long, tube-like homes in wooden 
planks of ships, wharf pilings, and manila hemp. So too is the Wood Piddock 
or Martesia. 

A large proportion of bivalves are found in shallow water, but many 
others are typically deep-water dwellers. The bathymetric range for some 
species may be narrowly defined in the case of certain scallops. Dipper 
Clams {Cuspidaria) and astartes. On the other hand, some species found in 
a few feet of water may also occur in depths of over two miles. One species 
of Abra Clam, Abra projundorum E. A. Smith, has been dredged in the 
mid-North Pacific at a depth of 2,900 fathoms — over three miles! 

HOW THEY GROW 

The shelly valves of clams are the product of the fleshy mantle. This 
thin, leaf-like organ covers the animal as the flyleaves cover the body of a 



Life of the Clams 3 3 

book and, by its physiological activities, secretes the hard valves of calcium 
carbonate, which thus come to occupy the position of the covers of the 
book. In the simplest form of mantle the edges are free except on the back, 
where the hinge of the shell is located, corresponding to the arrangement of a 
book. Sea water may enter the cavity enclosed by the mantle at almost any 
place. In many groups of bivalves, however, the mantle edges may be fused, 
not only along the back where the valves are joined together but along all 
or most of the lower margins. Openings are usually present to accommodate 
the foot and siphons when such organs are developed. 


