

298 American Seashelh 

Cavolina micinata Rang Uncinate Cavoline 

Figure 64X 

Worldwide, pelagic. (40° N. to 40° S.)6 to 7 mm. in length. Dorsal lip with a thin margin. Ventral lip not 
more developed than the dorsal one. Shell with distinct lateral points. Upper 
lip flattened posteriorly. C. iincinati^ormis Pfeffer is a synonym. 

Cavolina inflexa Lesueur Inflexed Cavoline 

Figure 641 

Atlantic and Indo-Pacific. (41° N. to 42° S.). 

6 to 7 mm. in length, similar to uncinata, but the upper Hp is directed 
straight forward, instead of flattened posteriorly; and the ventral side of the 
shell is weakly, instead of strongly, convex. C. labiata Orb., C. imitans Pfeffer 
and C. elongata Blainville are this species. 

Subgenus Diacria Gray 1842 

Similar to Cavolina s.s., but the dorsal lip of the shell is thickened into 
a pad, and not thin as the true Cavoline is. Some workers use this as a genus. 

Cavolina trispinosa Lesueur Three-spined Cavoline 

Figure 641 

Worldwide, pelagic. (60° N. to 41° S.). 

About 1 1 mm. in length. Dorsal lip thickened into a pad. Shell with a 
long lateral spine on each side, and a very long terminal one. Aperture 
scarcely discernible. Ventral side of shell very slightly convex. C. mucronata Q. and G., C. cuspidata Delle Chiaje and C. reeviana Dunker are this 
species. Very common. 

Cavolina quadridentata Lesueur Four-toothed Cavoline 

Figure 64s 

Worldwide, pelagic. (36° N. to 28° S.). 

2 to 4 mm. in length. Dorsal lip thickened into a pad. Without prominent lateral spines. Aperture well-developed. Ventral side greatly inflated. 
Upper lip longer than the bottom one. C. inermis Gould, C. inimita Sowerby, 
C. intermedia Sowerby and C. costata Pfefi^er are synonyms. Quite common. 

Genus CitvierivLt Boas 1886 

Shell cylindrical, shaped somewhat like a fat cigar. Surface smooth. A 
cross-section is almost circular. Behind the aperture the shell is slightly conDORIDAE 299 

stricted. There is only one species in the genus. The genera Cuvieria Rang 
and Herse Gistel 1848 (non Oken 181 5) are synonyms. 

Cuvierina columnella Rang Cigar Pteropod 

Figure 64m 
