hinge or along the margins of the valves. Lunule jusf in front of the beaks 
is deep, heart-shaped, small and nearly all on the right valve. A common tropical species. Do not confuse with C. orbiculata. 

Codakia costata Orbigny Costate Lucina 

North Carolina to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

/4 inch in length, variable in shape, but usually orbicular, quite obese, 
white to yellowish in color. With fine radial ribs, usually in pairs which are 
crossed by very fine concentric threads. Beaks also* with this sculpturing. 
Lunule small, indistinct, lanceolate, slightly more on the right valve. Compare its poorly defined lunule with those of orbicidaris and orbiculata. Moderately common offshore on sandy bottoms. 

Subgenus Epilucina Dall 1901 
Codakia californica Conrad Californian Lucina 

Plate 31C 

Crescent City, California, to Lower California. 



CHAMIDAE 391 

I to I K Inches In length, oval to circular, moderately inflated. Exterior 
dull-white with numerous, crowded, rather distinct, but small, concentric 
threads. Lunule of right valve like a small, depressed, lanceolate shield which 
fits snugly into a similarly shaped recess in the left valve. A common Httoral 
species in southern California and down to 78 fathoms. Do not confuse with 
large specimens of Diplodonta. 



Subgenus Ctena Morch i860 
Codakia orbicidata Montagu Dwarf Tiger Lucina 

Plate 30I 

North Carolina to the south half of Florida and the West Indies. 

I inch or less in length, very similar to orbicularis^ but with a large, 
elongate lunule in front of the beaks (instead of small and heart-shaped), and 
with stronger, less numerous, commonly divaricate ribs which are noticeable 
right up to the ends of the beaks. This species is much fatter and never has 
pink coloring inside. Common in sand from low water to 100 fathoms. 

The form filiata Dall has finer sculpturing much like orbicidaris, is often 
yellowish in color, but can be readily distinguished from the latter by its 
elongate lunule. Common in the Gulf of Mexico. 



Genus Divaricella von Martens 1880 
Divaricella quadrisidcata Orbigny Cross-hatched Lucina 

Plate 30m 

Massachusetts to south half of Florida and the West Indies. 

/4 to I inch in length, almost circular, moderately inflated, and glossywhite in color. Sculpture of fine, criss-cross or divaricate, impressed lines. 
Inner margin minutely impressed. A very common species washed ashore on 
