California. 

4 inches in length. Rhinophore stalk stout, conical, the clavus perfoliate, with about 24 leaves, and the stalk deeply retractile within low sheaths, 
the margins of which are tuberculate. Each of the 6 branchial plumes large 
and spreading, 3- to 4-pinnate. A thin, membrane-like expansion joins the 
bases of the plumes. Radula with 26 rows; center naked; with 55 to 62 
strongly hooked pleural teeth. Moderately common in tide pools. 

Genus Discodorts Bergh 1898 

Body rather soft, oval in outline; branchial aperture slightly crenulate, 
stellate or bilabiate; anterior margin of the foot bilabiate, the upper lip more 
or less notched. 

Discodoris heatbi MacFarland Heath's Doris 

Plate i6i 

California. 

I inch in length. Mantle thick, densely spiculate. Rhinophores cylindroconical, the stalk stout, the clavus with 10 to 15 leaves, and wholly retractile. Each of the 8 to 10 branchial plumes are tripinnate. Radula colorless, 
with 20 rows of teeth; center naked. 36 to 42 strongly hooked pleural teeth. 
Rather rare in rock pools in the summer. 

Genus Rostanga Bergh 1879 

Back covered with minute, spiculose or stiff papillae; branchiae of 
simple-pinnate leaves. 

Rostanga pulchra MacFarland MacFarland's Pretty Doris 

Plate i6g 

California. 

% inch in length. Rhinophores short, stout, translucent-pink, stalk 
stout, prolonged beyond the 20- to 24-leaved clavus as a blunt, cylindrical 
process which is % the length of the entire rhinophore. 10 to 12 erect, sepaDORIDAE 301 

rate, retractile branchial plumes. Radula with 65 to 80 rows of 80 denticulate pleural teeth. Lives on red sponges. The egg-ribbon is orange-red and 
often laid on the sponge. Common. 

Genus Diaidula Bergh 1880 

Body fairly soft; back silky finish; branchial aperture round and crenulate; branchial plumes tripinnate. 

Diaulula sandiegensis Cooper San Diego Doris 

Plate i6d 

Alaska to San Diego, California. 

2 to 3 inches in length. Body soft; back velvety. Rings of black varying 
greatly in number and clarity (2 or 3 to 30). Rhinophores conical, the 
clavus with 20 to 30 leaves, deeply retractile into a conspicuous sheath with 
a crenulate margin. 6 branchial plumes tripinnate. Radula broad, with 19 
to 22 rows, each row with 26 to 30 falcate teeth on each side of the naked 
center. Moderately common in rock pools of the fucoid zone at all seasons. 
The broad, white, spiral egg bands are commonly laid from June to August, 

