

Strigilla carnaria Linne Large Strigilla 

Plate 40c 

North Carolina to Florida and western Caribbean. 

% to I inch in length, oval, slightly oblique, moderately compressed, 
fairly thin but strong. Outer surface finely sculptured by cut lines which 
are obliquely radial in the central and posterior regions of the valve. At the 
anterior third of the valve, there are wavy, oblique threads running in the 
opposite direction. Exterior pinkish white with former, concentric growth 
stages a deeper pink. Interior bright watermelon-red. The upper line of 



I 



TELLINIDAE 429 

the pallial sinus runs directly posterior to the anterior muscle scar. Common 
in shallow water in sand and commonly washed ashore. 

West Indian collectors should not confuse this species with Strigilla 
rombergi Morch (southeast Florida, the Bahamas to Lesser Antilles) which 
is very similar, except that the upper line of the pallial sinus does not reach 
the anterior muscle scar. The radial cut lines are more numerous and more 
curved in rombergi. Common. 

Strigilla viirabilis Philippi White Strigilla 

North Carolina to Florida, Texas and the A\^est Indies. 

Vz inch in length, oval, inflated, shiny, all white in color and with the 
peculiar Strigillid sculpturing which is very similar to that in 5. pisiforinis 
(the radial cut lines meet the ventral margin of the valves at an angle of 
about 45 degrees). The pallial line runs forward from the posterior muscle 
scar but does not reach the anterior muscle scar as it does in pisiforutis. 
Common. Do not confuse with the larger Divaricella qiiadrisulcata (page 
391) which has fine denticulations on the inner margins of the valves. 
5. flexuosa Say 1822 is preoccupied by Montagu 1803 and Turton 1807, 
and must take the name viirabilis Philippi 1841. 

Strigilla pisijorviis Linne Pea Strigilla 

Florida Keys, the Bahamas and the AVest Indies. 

% inch in length, similar to 5. carnaria, but always much smaller and 
more inflated. The pink color inside is concentrated in the deepest part of 
the valve, and the margins are usually white. The radial, oblique cut lines 
meet the ventral margin of the valve at about 45 degrees angle, while in 
carnaria the Hnes are almost vertical. This is a very abundant species, especially in the Bahamas where they are gathered in great numbers and 
brought to Florida for use in the shellcraft business. 

Genus Phylloda Schumacher 18 17 
Subgenus Phyllodina Dall 1900 

