North Carolina to Key West and the West Indies. 

I inch in length, with only one or no former varix. Whorls squarish 
at the shoulder where there are 2 spiral rows of prominent beads. The last 
whorl has only i row of about 6 to 8 rather large tubercles in addition to 
spiral and axial threads. Siphonal canal moderately long, slender. Color 
whitish with i or 2 orange-brown bars on the varix. Periostracum rather 
thick, gray-brown. Uncommon below low-water line. 



196 Afiierican Seashells 

Cymatiu77t chlorostomwn Lamarck Gold-mouthed Triton 

Plate 25q 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. Bermuda. 

% to 2% inches in length; coarsely corrugated by spiral, noduled cords; 
varices spaced 73 of a whorl apart. Shell ash-gray with brown flecks and 
characterized by an orange mouth with white teeth. A common West Indian 
species which is also abundant in the Indo-Pacific. See differentiating remarks under C. martinianum. 

Subgenus Tritoniscus Dall 1904 
Cymatium labiosum Wood Lip Triton 

Plate 25m 

Florida Keys and the West Indies. 

Shell % inch in length, much like Cyinatiwn gracile, but heavier, with 
a much shorter siphonal canal, slightly umbilicated, and with strong spiral 
cords on the base of the shell. Uncommon in intertidal reef areas. 

Subgenus Gutturnium Morch 1852 
CymatiuTn muricinum Roding Knobbed Triton 

Plate 251 
Southeast Florida and the West Indies. Bermuda. 

I to 2 inches in length; characterized by a thickened cream parietal 
shield and a long, bent back siphonal canal. Color ash-gray, sometimes darkbrown with a narrow cream, spiral band. Not uncommon in intertidal 
reef areas. Interior of aperture brownish red to yellowish white. C. tuberosum Lamarck is a later name for this species. 

Subgenus Ranularia Schumacher 181 7 
Cymatium cynocephahwi Lamarck Dog-head Triton 

Plate 9J 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

1V2 to 2^ inches in length; with globular whorls which are squarish 
at the shoulder. Siphonal canal long and slender. Usually with only one 
former varix. Apical whorls cancellate; last whorl with slightly noduled, 
spiral cords. Parietal wall with an oval splotch of dark-brown, over which 
run light-orange spiral cords. Uncommon in Florida. The subgenus Tritonocauda Dall 1904 is the same as Ranularia. 

Genus Distorsio Roding 1798 
Distorsio clathrata Lamarck Atlantic Distorsio 
