


Foreivord 

XIV 



A.AV 

of all of us who hunt the elusive moUusk. 



Henry A. Pilsbry 
Curator of Mollusks 
Academy of Natural Sciences 
of Philadelphia 



PART I 



The Natural History 
of Seashells 



CHAPTER I 

Man and Mollusks 



Seashells and man were closely associated even before the dawn of civilization when primitive man gathered snails, oysters, and other kinds of mollusks 
along the seashore for food, implements, ornaments, and money. The many 
kitchen-middens and burial sites in nearly every comer of the world reveal 
the great extent to which early peoples were dependent upon mollusks. On 
some coral islands, as, for instance, Barbados, where there was no available 
stone, nearly all domestic utensils, including knives and axes, were made from 
seashells. As civilization became more complex, specialization in the use of 
mollusks increased. From them were obtained dyes, inks, textiles and windowpanes. In the Mediterranean region there was a long period when an 
entire commercial empire owed its origin and continued success to the <tname>Tyrian 
purple</tname> obtained from a seashell. Later, in Roman times, the farming of 
oysters and edible snails became a major enterprise. 

Today the uses of moUuscan shells are legion. Jewelers, artists and button manufacturers; biologists, geologists and archaeologists; bird and aquarium 
dealers; all daily use mollusks or their products. In recent years there has 
flourished m Florida a five-million-dollar-a-year seashell industry. Throughout the country, the hobby of shell collecting is enjoyed by countless thousands, and it now rivals the popularity of coin collecting. Local and federal 
agencies arc investing millions in research directed toward the more efficient 
cultivation and utilization of commercially important mollusks. 

From another standpoint of perhaps even greater importance mollusks 
have influenced the activities and welfare of man. Some are extremely destructive to wooden structures in the sea, and others are a serious menace to 
health, mostly as intermediate hosts to dangerous parasites or as carriers of 

3 
