
Mopalia ciliata Sowerby Hairy Mopalia 

Alaska to Monterey, California. 

I to 1% inches in length, oblong, usually colored with splotches of 
black and emerald-green, although sometimes having cream-orange bands 
on the sides of the valves. Sometimes grayish green with grayish black or 
white mottlings. Girdle colored yellowish brown to blackish brown. Valves 
slightly beaked; lateral area separated from the central area by a prominent, 
raised row of beads. Central areas with many coarse, wavy, longitudinal 
riblets, which are sometimes pitted between. Lateral areas coarsely granulated or wrinkled. Posterior valve small, with a deep slit on each side and 
a broad, deep notch at the very posterior end. Girdle fairly wide, generally 
notched at the posterior end and clothed with curly, strap-like brown hairs 
between which are much smaller, glassy white hairs or spicules. Interior 
of valves greenish white. Anterior valve granulated and with 8 to 9 coarse, 
raised rays of beads. A common intertidal species. The subspecies ivosnessenski Middendorff (Alaska to Puget Sound) is supposed to be without the 
tiny white spicules in the girdle. 

Mopalia muscosa Gould Mossy Mopalia 

Alaska to Lower California. 

I to 2 inches in length, oblong to oval. Very similar to M. ciliata, but 
differing in having a very shallow and small notch at the very posterior 
end. Color usually a dull-brown, blackish olive or grayish. Interior of 
valves blue-green, rarely stained with pinkish. Girdle with stiff hairs resembling a fringe of moss. The following species have been considered by some 
workers as varieties of 7miscosa, and perhaps with some justification: lignosa 
Gould, hindsi Reeve, acuta Carpenter, the latter having also been named 
plumosa and fissa by Carpenter. A common intertidal species. 

Mopalia lignosa Gould Woody Mopalia 

Alaska to Lower California. 

I to 2^4 inches in length, oblong. Color a grayish green or blackish 
green, rarely with whitish cream and brown, feathery markings. The sculpturing on the valves is very delicate and may consist only of numerous small 
pittings near the center. Concentric growth lines in smoother specimens are 
quite easily seen. Radial ribs absent on the end valves. Girdle solid or macu316 American Seashells 

lated with browns and yellows. Strap-like, brown hairs not numerous. Interior of valves greenish white to white. Moderately common. 

Mopalia hindsi Reeve Hinds' Mopalia 

Alaska to the Gulf of California. 

2 to 3 inches in length, oblong, flattened and resembhng M. ciliata 
Sowerby, but generally smoother. Girdle brown, rather thin and fairly 
wide, and almost naked except for a few short hairs. Interior of valves 
white with short crimson rays under the beaks. Moderately common. 

Genus Placiphorella Dall 1878 
Placiphorella velata Pilsbry Veiled Pacific Chiton 

Figure 66a 

Monterey, California, to Lower California. 

1 to 2 inches in length, readily recognized by its flat, oval shape and 
wide girdle which is very broad in front. There are a few hairs on the 
