
Cape Cod to south Florida, the Gulf States and the Caribbean. 

I to I /4 inches in length, elongate, subcylindrical, fragile and smooth. 
The valves are reinforced internally by a very weak, radial rib (commonly 



SANGUINOLARllDAE 441 

obscure) running across the center of the valve just anterior to the 2 small, 
projecting cardinal teeth. Color of shell whitish purple, covered externally 
with a very thin, chestnut-brown, glossy periostracum. A common shallowwater species. 

Tagehis subteres Conrad Purplish Pacific Tagelus 

Plate 29s 

Santa Barbara, California, to Lower California. 

I to 2 inches in length, subcylindrical, slightly arcuate with the dorsal 
margins sloping down from the beaks. Color pale purple inside and out. 
Periostracum yellowish brown and finely wrinkled. Moderately common in 
shallow water in sandy mud. 

Tagehis politiis Carpenter from Central America does not slope down 
from the beaks so strongly, is a thinner shell and much more darkly colored 
with violet. 

Genus Meter odonax Morch 1853 

Shell less than i inch in length, resembling a strong, oval Tellina. Two 
cardinals and two lateral teeth in each valve, the laterals usually not very 
distinct. Pallial sinus extends % the length of the shell. 

Heterodonax bimaculatus Linne Small False Donax 

Plate 3oh 

South half of Florida and the West Indies. Southern Cahfornia to 
Panama. 

% to I inch in length, oval, with a truncate anterior end and moderately 
inflated. Exterior smoothish, with numerous fine growth lines. 2 cardinals 
in each valve. Anterior to the beaks (which point forward), the hinge is 
thick for a short distance, then followed by a thinner, concave portion. Color 
variable: white with 2 oblong crimson spots inside; violet with radial streaks; 
pink, yellow or mauve; some are speckled with black or brown. This is a 
common species found with Donax on the slopes of sandy beaches. H. pacificiis Conrad is a synonym. 

Genus Gari Schumacher 18 17 

Shell fairly large, elongate-oval, beaks near the center; hinge thick and 
with 2 small, bifid teeth just under the beak. Alias Psainmobia Lam. 18 18. 

Subgenus Fsamvtocola Blainville 1824 
Gari californica Conrad Californian Sunset Clam 

Plate 2911 

