Barnea costata Linne; b, Petricola pholadifonnis Lamarck, False Angel Wing 

(p. 420); c, Northern Piddock, Zirfaea crispata Linne. All slightly reduced. 

(From Gould and Binney 1870.) 

Barnea truncata Say Fallen Angel Wing 

Massachusetts Bay to south Florida. 

2 to 2/4 inches in length, somewhat resembling the Angel Wing, B. 
costata, but widely gaping at both ends, truncate at the posterior end, 
smoothish at the posterior half, and with an elongate, narrow accessory 
plate over the beak area. Shell fragile, white to grayish white. The internal 
condyle is long and about the thickness of a toothpick. The siphons are 
encased in a large, rough, gray, tubular sheath which may be extended 2 to 
3 times the length of the shell. Bores into clay, soft rock or wood. Common 
in intertidal zones. Do not confuse with Zirfaea crispata which is much 
more squat and has a radial, indented line dividing each valve into 2 areas. 

Barnea siibtnmcata Sowcrby 1834 Pacific Mud Piddock 

San Francisco, California, to Lower California. 



462 American Se ash ells 

2 to 2^4 inches in length, very elongate, moderately gaping at the bluntly 
rounded, posterior end, and widely gaping at the foot end. Top margin 
of shell folded back on itself at, and just anterior to, the beaks. No distinct 
radial groove on the sides of the valves. Sculpture at anterior end is of prickly, 
concentric lamellae which fade out toward the smoothish posterior third. 
Siphon covered with a heavy, brown periostracum. May be dug out of 
very soft shale at very low tides in a few localities. Moderately common. 
Miss Turner advises me that this species must take the earlier name of Barnea 
spathidata Deshayes. It was formerly known as B. pacifica Stearns. 

Genus Zirfaea Gray 1842 
Zirfaea crispata Linne Great Piddock 

Figure 94c 

Newfoundland to New Jersey. Europe. 

1 to 2 inches in length, about half as high. Gaping at both ends. Characterized by the radial, indented line which divides the valves into 2 areas: the 
posterior section which has coarse, irregular growth lines, and the anterior 
section which has fimbriated or scaled growth lines and a serrated edge. 
A4oderately common in cold water where it burrows into soft r^ck. This is 
the only member of the genus on the Atlantic Coast. 

Zirfaea pilsbryi Lowe Pacific Rough Piddock 

Bering Sea to San Diego, California. 

2 to 4 inches in length, gaping at both ends. Purportedly there are no 
accessory plates present, except for a small mesoplax. The folded-back dorsal 
margin at, and in front of, the beaks is covered with a thin, periostracal 
membrane in fresh material. The yellowish periostracum at the posterior 
end (siphonal end) is thin, but is not leaf-like as in Parapholas. No eggshelllike material over the anterior foot gape. This species appears in old books 
