Aequipecten gib bus Linne Calico Scallop 

Plate 33) 

North Carolina to Florida, the Gulf of Mexico, and West Indies. 

I to 2 inches. A common, colorful scallop found abundantly in southern 
Florida a little offshore. Both valves quite fat. Ribs usually 20 (19 to 21), 
quite square in cross-section. Bottom valve commonly whitish with a little 
color; upper valve can be of many bright hues (lavender-rose, red, whitish 
with purple or reddish mottlings, etc.). This is dislocatus Say. If collecting in 
southeast Florida, do not confuse with A, nucleus, 

Aequipecten gibbus nucleus Born Nucleus Scallop 

Plate 34h 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

I to 1/4 inches in size. This is a difficult subspecies to identify, and 
it is possible that it is only a form. It is rarely over an inch in size, has i to 3 
more ribs than gibbus, is usually fatter, and is characteristically colored with 
small, chestnut mottlings on a cream background and commonly with snowwhite specklings. Both or only one valve may be heavily colored. Never 
with the bright shades of orange, red, etc. Not uncommon in the Keys from 
low tide to a few fathoms on grass. 

Genus Hinnites Def ranee 1821 
Biologically speaking, this genus is really a Chlamys in which the adults 



SPONDYLIDAE 369 

are attached to rocks and become quite massive like Spojidyhis. For convenience, we are considering it a full genus. 

Himjttes multirugosiis Gale Giant Rock Scallop 

Plate 29a 

Aleutian Island to Lower California. 

Up to 8 inches in length. A heavy massive shell characterized by the 
early "Chlamys-Hke" shell at the beaks. Interior white with a purplish hinge 
area. Attached to rocks by the right valve. The ^2-inch long young are 
almost impossible to separate from some species of Chlainys, except when 
they show a mauve spot on the inside of the hinge line on each side of the 
resilium pit, or if they show signs of distortion or a mottling pattern of 
color on the outside of the valves. Some vouno- are bright-orancre. A common 
species. Formerly known as H'mnites gigante7is Gray. This is a regrettable 
name change which I have followed, since leading workers on the Pacific 
Coast have adopted it. 

Fa77nly PROPEAMUSSIIDAE 

Genus Propeaviusshmi Gregorio 1883 

Propeavitissmm poiirtalesiaimm Dall Pourtales' Glass Scallop 

Plate 27c 

