each whitish. Girdle rather narrow and with alternating, faint bars of 
brown and yellowish brown. Scales round and so small that the girdle has 
the texture of fine sandpaper. Common. 

Ischnochiton conspicuus Pilsbry Conspicuous Chiton 

San Miguel Island, California, to the Gulf of California. 

2 to 6 inches in length, very similar to magdalenensis, but the front slope 
of the anterior valve is very concave; the central areas are practically smooth 
and with flecks of green. Scales are elongate, hard, and so densely packed that 
the girdle feels velvety. Interior of valves pinkish and blue. Moderately 
common between tides. 

Ischnochiton acrior Pilsbry Acrior Chiton 

San Pedro, California, to Lower California. 

2 to 6 inches in length, very similar to magdale7iensis. Instead of diamond-shaped pittings on the sides of the central areas, there are wavy ribs. 
The front slope of the anterior valve is very concave, as in conspicuus. The 
scales are similar to those in inagdalenensis, but much larger. Interior of 
valves pinkish with a blue spot at the anterior end of each valve. Moderately 
common. 



322 American Seashells 

Ischnochiton regularis Carpenter Regular Chiton 

Southern CaHfornia. 

I to i^ inches in length, oblong, appears smooth to the naked eye. 
Color an even slate-blue or uniform olive-blue. Valves slightly carinate. 
Central areas with very fine, longitudinal threads. Lateral areas slightly 
raised and with radial threads. Interior of valves gray-blue. Girdle with 
very tiny, closely packed, low, round scales. Moderately common between 
tides. 

Subgenus Lepidopleuroides Thiele 1928 
Ischnochiton albus Linne White Northern Chiton 

Arctic Seas to Massachusetts. Europe. Arctic Seas to off San Diego, 
California. 

About Yz inch in length, oblong, moderately elevated. Upper surfaces 
smoothish except for irregular, concentric growth ridges and a microscopic, 
sandpapery effect. Color whitish, cream, light-orange or rarely marked with 
brown. Interior of valves white. Posterior valve with 12 to 13 weak slits. 
17 to 19 gill lamellae on each side, beginning about halfway alongside the 
foot. Girdle sandpapery, with tiny, closely packed, gravelly scales. Common from shore to several fathoms in cold water. Distinguished from ruber 
by the anterior slope of the anterior valve which is straight to slightly concave in albus, but convex in ruber. 

Ischnochiton ruber Linne Red Northern Chiton 

Arctic Seas to Connecticut. Europe. Alaska to Monterey, California. 

V2 to I inch in length, oblong, moderately elevated and with the valves 
rather rounded. Upper surfaces smooth except for growth wrinkles. Colored 
a light-tan over which is a heavy suffusion of orange-red marblings, or entirely suffused with red. Interior of valves bright pink. Posterior valve with 
