Rarely over 3 inches in size. Lives embedded in sponges with only the 
margins of the valves showing. The surface of the valves has a soft, silky 
appearance. Beak twisted back into a strong spiral. Exterior light-orange to 
tan; interior white. Inner margins with numerous small, round denticles. 
Common. 

Another flat, but larger and light-shelled oyster, Pycnodonta hyotis 
Linne, is found in deep water attached to old wrecks off Florida and in the 
West Indies. It is immediately recognized by the peculiar structure of the 
shell which under a lens appears to be filled with numerous bubbles or empty 
cells, much like a bath sponge. It reaches a diameter of 3 or 4 inches, is 
generally circular in outline and may be colored whitish cream, brownish or 
even lavender. Ostrea thovmsi McLean is this species according to the French 
worker, Gilbert Ranson. 

Ostrea lurida Carpenter Native Pacific Oyster 

Plate igi 
Alaska to Lower California. 

2 to 3 inches in length, of various shapes; generally rough with coarse 
concentric growth lines, but sometimes smoothish. Interior usually stained 
with various shades of olive-green, and sometimes with a slight metallic 
sheen. It occasionally has purplish brown to brown axial color bands on the 
exterior. This is the common intertidal native species of the Pacific Coast. 
A number of ecological forms have been described: expansa Carpenter, 
rufoides Cpr. and possibly conchaphila Cpr. 

Genus Crassostrea Sacco 1897 

This genus includes the commercially important American Oyster, C. 
virginica Gmehn, which was formerly placed in the genus Ostrea. In 
Crassostrea, the left or attached valve is larger than the right. The inner 
margin is smooth. The eggs are small, produced in large numbers at one 
spawning (over 50 million), and are fertilized and develop in the open waters outside of the parents. The muscle scar is usually colored. The prodissoconch hinge is short, and the valves asymmetrical. The Japanese Oyster (C. 
gigas)^ introduced to west American shores, the Portuguese Oyster (C angulata Lamarck), and C. rhizophorae Guilding from Cuba also belong to this 
genus. Gryphaea Lamarck is a fossil genus which should not be associated 
with this genus. 



ASTARTIDAE 375 

Crassostrea virginica Gmelin Eastern Oyster 

Plate 28a 

Gulf of St. Lawrence to the Gulf of Mexico and the West Indies. 

2 to 6 inches in length. This is the familiar edible oyster which varies 
greatly in size and shape. The valve margins are only slightly undulating or 
are straight. The muscle scar is usually colored a deep purple, the rest of the 
shell being white inside and dirty-gray exteriorly. Beaks usually long and 
strongly curved. "Blue Points," a form originally harvested at Blue Point, 
Long Island, are rounded in shape and with a rather deep, lower valve. 
"Lynnhavens" arc broad, elongate forms originally harvested at Lynnhaven 
Bay, Virginia. These variations are due to environmental differences. C. 
brasiliana Lamarck and C. floridensis Sowerby are this species. 

Crassostrea rhizophorae Guilding (brasiliana of authors) is found in the 
