Hyalina avenacea Deshayes Little Oat Marginella 

Figure 56k 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

% to V2 inch in length, slender, very similar to H. avefia, but usually 
smaller, with a longer spire, more slender anterior end, and pure, opaquewhite in color, except for a very faint hint of straw color below the suture, 
again at the middle of the body whorl and also near the base. Common from 
shallow water to 750 fathoms. This is avenella Dall and succiitea Conrad. 

Hyali?ia torticula Dall Knave Marginella 

Figure 56I 

Off eastern Florida. 

% inch in length, slender, fusiform, with a tall spire which is leaning to 
one side. Color opaque-white, glossy, and with a hint of straw-colored bands. 
Possibly a sport of avenacea. Uncommon in deep water. 

Hyalina californica Tomlin Californian Marginella 

Santa Monica, Cahfornia, to Mexico. 

Ys inch in length, slender, aperture % the length of the entire shell, with 
4 whorls, and colored a grayish to bright-orange with 3 distinct or obscure, 
rather wide, spiral bands of white. Lower third of columella white and with 
4 distinct, spiral folds. Outer lip smooth, rounded, pushed in slightly, especially near the central portion. Moderately common in rocky rubble under 
stones at dead low tide. 

Genus Gibbenilina Monterosato 1884 
(Cypraeolina CeruUi-Irelli 191 1) 

Gibberulina ovuliformis Orbigny Teardrop Marginella 

Figure 56-0 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

Vs inch (2.5 mm.) in length, globular, glossy, opaque-white. Aperture 
as long as the shell. Apex hidden under top of outer lip. Upper part of whorl 
slightly shouldered. Lower third of columella with 3 or 4 small, slanting 



260 American Seashells 

teeth. Outer lip thickened. Do not confuse with Persicula iitinuta Pfr. Common in shallow water to several fathoms. Alias lacrimula Gould, hadria Dall 
and amianta Dall. 

Gibberulina pyriformis Carpenter Pear-shaped Marginella 

Figure 56n 

Izhut Bay, Alaska, to Gulf of California. 

Ys inch (3 mm.) in length; aperture as long as the shell. Glossy, translucent milk-white. Lower columella with 4 fairly strong folds with several 
microscopic teeth farther above. Outer lip curled in and with about 30 
microscopic teeth. Animal black. Very common all along the Pacific coast 
