
Key West and the West Indies. 

% inch in width and about /4 inch in length. Top of whorls sculptured 
with about a dozen fairly regular, small, spiral cords. The angular periphery 
of the whorls bears the largest cord. Umbilicus round, deep, and furrowed 
on its sides by two spiral cords, the upper one ending at the columella in a 
fairly sizeable bead. Columella set back quite far at its upper half; the lower 
section bears the bead, and below that there are several, smaller, indistinct 
beads. Color of shell grayish to brownish white with small mottlings of 
reddish or blackish brown. Operculum, as in all Tegula, horny and multispiral. Formerly scalaris Anton (not Brocchi) and indusi "Gmelin." Common under rocks in the West Indies, but uncommon on the Lower Florida 
Keys. 



TROCHIDAE 119 

T. hotessierana Orbigny from the West Indies is similar, but rarely over 
Vz inch, with a more rounded periphery, with smaller, neater, equal-sized, 
smooth spiral threads, and dark bluish black in color, except for a whitish 
area around the narrow umbilicus. Uncommon. 

Tegula excavata Lamarck Green-base Tegula 

Florida Keys? Caribbean area. 

34 inch in length and width. Characterized by its bluish-gray color, 
corrugated sculpture (weak spiral cords and oblique lines of growth), its 
concave base, thin outer lip, and especially by the blue-green to iridescentgreen circle of color around the very deep, round, narrow umbilicus. A 
variant exists in some areas which lacks the green, umbilical color and in 
which the spiral cords are stronger and the shell with axial, slanting bars of 
black-brown. Very common in the West Indies, along the rocky shores. 

Tegula funebralis A. Adams Black Tegula 

Vancouver, B. C, to Lower California. 

I to I % inches in length, heavy, dark purple-black in color; smoothish, 
but with a narrow, puckered band just below the suture. Weak spiral cords 
rarely evident; coarse growth lines present in large, more elongate specimens. 
Base rounded. Umbilicus closed or merely a slight dimple. Columella 
pearly, with two small nodules at the base. A very common littoral, rockloving species. Do not confuse with T. gallina. 

Tegula gallina Forbes Speckled Tegula 

Plate i8v 
San Francisco to the Gulf of California. 

I to I /4 inches in length, very similar to funebralis, but a lighter, grayish green color with dense, zigzag, axial stripes of purplish. The shell surface 
is also coarser. A common, southern species found among littoral rocks. 

Tegula brunnea Philippi Brown Tegula 

Crescent City to Santa Barbara Islands, California. 

I to I % inches in length, similar to funebralis, but light chestnut-brown 
in color with the base often glossy, brownish white. The umbilicus is closed, 
but usually with a dimple-like impression. Columella usually with only one 
small tooth near the base. Common at dead low tide on rocks. Usually 
heavily encrusted with algal growths. 
