

Life of the Snails 21 

review of the biochemistry of shell pigments has been made by Alex Comfort (195 1 ). 

Rate of growth and span of life in gastropods vary according to the 
species and ecologic conditions. The maximum age of marine species is very 
imperfectly known. Undoubtedly many species live for only two, three or 
four years. The common European periwinkle {Littorina littorea) found in 
New England has been kept alive in captivity for twenty years. Large specimens of the Horse Conch, the Queen Conch (Strojnbus gigas) and the 
Cameo King Conch (Cassis) probably represent ten to twenty-five years of 
growth. The nudibranch sea slugs are believed to be short-lived, and Aeolis 
and Goniodoris have been shown to survive only into the second year. It is 
quite likely, though, that the Aplysia seahares and the Bulla Bubble Shells 
live for at least five years. 

The ultimate size of individuals in species in which the sexes are separate may be influenced by the sex of the individual. In many groups, such 
as the buccinid and Busycon Whelks, the Strombus conchs, periwinkles and 
others, the shells of the females are always considerably larger. In the Pale 
Lacuna Periwinkle (Lacuna pallidula), the females are from five to ten times 
as large as the males. 

Considerable variation in size results from the diet of mollusks. It has 
been experimentally shown that the Ovster Drill snails (Urosalpinx cinerea) 
eating My a clam and oyster meat show the greatest increase in growth, while 
those feeding on barnacles and Mytilus mussels show the least amount of 
growth. It has also been found that snails of this species living in brackish 
water grow to a larger size than those living in pure sea water. Colonies of 
snails exhibiting these ecologic characters have been erroneously considered 
new species by some workers. 

HOW THEY FEED 

The gastropods are much more imaginative in their selection and manner of acquiring food than the bivalves and other mollusks. Unlike the 
clams, most snails travel in search of their food. A great proportion of the 
marine gastropods are carnivorous, but some are detritus feeders, others are 
vegetarians, and a few, like their bivalve relatives, are suspension feeders. 

Among the flesh-eating snails, there have been many modifications in 
the structure of the mouth parts, including the proboscis and the teeth. In 
some the snout has remained very simple, and the snail merely pushes the end 
of its mouth against its food and tears off bits with the tongue-like radula or 
row of teeth. But in others a remarkably long, tube-like extension is developed which, when not in use, is retracted within the snout or head of the 
snail. When a living Melongena Crown Conch is quickly picked up, one can 



22 American Seashells 

frequently see the three-inch-long, tubular proboscis being withdrawn into 
the snail's head. This indicates that a clam or worm, upon which the snail 
was feeding, is located at that spot one or two inches below the surface of 
the mud. 



Figure 6. The open mouth of the Moon Snail, Natica, showing the radula ribbon 
and its teeth. X3. (Redrawn from Ankel 1936.) 

