

2 34 American Seashells 

the last whorl. Outer lip turned in as the varix is formed. Color brighter. 
Posterior canal longer. Common in the West Indies; intertidal. 

Cantharus cancellarins Conrad Cancellate Cantharus 

West coast of Florida to Texas and Yucatan. 

Similar to C. tinctiis, but with a lighter shell, higher spire, and with sharp, 
spiral threads and narrow, axial ribs which cross to make a beaded and cancellate sculpturing. Posterior siphonal canal absent or weak. Varix very 
weak. Moderately common in shallow water. 

Genus Macron H. and A. Adams 1853 
Macroji lividus A. Adams Livid Macron 

Plate 24X 

Monterey, California, to Lower California. 

% to I inch in length, half as wide, strong, with 5 whorls which are 
covered with a thick, felt-like, dark-brown periostracum. Shell yellowish 
to bluish white. Outer lip sharp, strong, and near its base bearing a small, 
spiral thread. Columella strongly concave and white. Upper end of aperture 
narrow, with a small, short channel and with a white, tooth-like callus on 
the parietal wall. Siphonal canal short and slightly twisted. Base of shell 
with a half dozen incised spiral lines. Operculum chitinous, brown, thick, 
oval and with the nucleus at one end. Very common under stones at low 
tide. 

Family MELONGENIDAE 

Genus Melongena Schumacher 18 17 

{Gale odes) 

Melongena corona Gmelin Common Crown Conch 

Figure 52 

Florida, the Gulf States and A4exico. 

2 to 4 inches in length, very variable in size, color, shape and production 
of spines. Dirty-cream with wide, spiral bands of brown, purplish brown 
or dark bluish black. Pure white "albinos" are infrequent. Shoulder and 
base of shell with i, 2, 3 or 4 rows of semi-tubular spines which may point 
upward or horizontally. Numerous varieties have been named which do 
not even warrant subspecific standing: minor Sowerby (dwarf); estephomenos Melville (dwarf and narrow); altispira Pilsbry and Vanatta (long and 
narrow); bispinosa Philippi (2 rows of spines); insp'mata Richards spineless 
shoulder); and jnartiniana Philippi. A very common species in Florida. 
Used extensively in the shellcraft industry. 



MELONGENIDAE 



