an almost round base. x\pex pointed and near the center. Often covered with 
small, knobby nuUipore growths. Commonly washed ashore. It lives in cold 
water below the low ride level. 



102 American Seashells 

Subgenus Collisella Dall 1871 
Pacific Coast Species 

Acmaea pelta Eschscholtz Shield Limpet 

Plate i8n 

Alaska to Lower California. 

I to I % inches in maximum diameter, elliptical in outline, with a moderately high apex which is placed Vs to almost % way back from the anterior 
end. With about 25 axial, weakly developed, radial ribs. Edge of shell slightly 
wavy. External color of strong black radial, often intertwining, stripes on a 
whitish cream background. Interior usually faint bluish white, with or without a dark-brown spot. Inner border edged with alternating black and cream 
bars. A common rock-dweller. 

Acmaea fenestrata Reeve Fenestrate Limpet 

Plate i8t 

Alaska to Lower California. 

I to I /4 inches in maximum diameter, almost round in outline, rather 
high, and smoothish. The northern subspecies, <tlawname>cribraria Gould</tlawname> (pi. i8w), 
found from Alaska to northern California, has interior with various shades of 
glossy, chocolate-brown, and with a narrow, solid black border. The exterior 
is plain dark-gray. The typical southern <tlawname>fenestrata Reeve</tlawname> (pi. i8t), found 
from Point Conception south, has an external color pattern of regular dottings of cream on a gray-green background. Its interior has a small, brown 
apical spot surrounded by a bluish area and bordered at the margin of the 
shell with brown. Intergrades occur near Point Conception. This species is 
the only Pacific Acmaea which lives among loose boulders that are set in sand. 
It only feeds when submerged. Common. 

Ac7naea conus Test Test's Limpet 

Plate i8g 

Point Conception, Cahfornia, to Lower California. 

% inch in maximum diameter. Shell low, and like A. scabra, is with 
distinct but widely spaced, radial ribs. Distinguished from scabra by its 
glossy, smooth interior which often has an evenly colored brown center. 
A. scabra has a rough interior center and the brown stain looks smeared. 
However, this species may be a form of scabra. It is very abundant south of 
La Jolla and is found with A. scabra and A. digitalis. 

Acmaea limatula Carpenter File Limpet 

Plate 18-0 
Puget Sound to Lower California. 



