
Ejjsis myrae S. S. Berry Calif ornlan Jackknife Clam 

Southern California. 

2 inches in length, with much the same characters as In directus. This is 
the only Ensis in California and It is not very common. It has been erroneously called calif or7iic7is Dall which, however. Is a more southerly species. 
For a new name for the Californian Ensis, consult future works by Pacific 
Coast students (probably S. S. Berr)').^ 

^ Since appeared Aug. 1953 ^^ Trans. San Diego Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. 11, p. 398. 



444 American Se ash ells 

Genus Solen Linne 1758 
Similar to Ensis, but with only a single tooth at the end of each valve. 

Solen sicarius Gould Blunt Jackknife Clam 

Plate 29V 

British Columbia to Lower California. 

2 to 4 inches in length, 4 times as long as wide. Exterior with a varnishlike, olive to greenish periostracum. Moderately common in certain localities, especially sandy mud flats. Also dredged in 25 fathoms. 

Solen viridis Say Green Jackknife Clam 

Plate 3011 

Rhode Island to northern Florida and the Gulf States. 

About 2 inches in length, about 4 times as long as wide; dorsal edge 
straight, ventral edge curved. Hinge with a single projecting tooth at the 
very end of the valve. Color white; periostracum thin, varnish-like, light 
greenish or brownish. Moderately common in shallow-water sand flats. 

Solen rosaceiis Carpenter Rosy Jackknife Clam 

Santa Barbara, California, to A4azatlan, A^exico. 

I to 3 inches in length, almost 5 times as long as wide. Shell fragile, with 
a thin, glossy, olive periostracum. Beachworm specimens are whitish with 
rosy stains inside and out. It is more cylindrical, the anterior extremity is 
more rounded and narrower than in sicarius. An abundant species along the 
sandy shores of bays. Also to 25 fathoms. 

Genus Solecurtus Blainville 1825 

Quadrate to rectangular in shape; gaping at both ends. With weak, 
"clapboard" sculpturing. Ligament prominent, external and posterior to the 
small beaks. Right valve with 2 strong, horizontally jutting cardinal teeth 
just under the centrally located beaks. Left valve with i cardinal. Fsavtmosolen Risso 1826 is a synonym. 

Solecurtus cutningianus Dunker Corrugated Razor Clam 

North Carolina to south half of Florida to Texas. 

I to 2 inches in length with characters of the genus. Color all white, 
