Lunatia triseriata Say Spotted Northern Moon-shell 

Plate 22m 

Gulf of St. Lawrence to North Carolina. 

^ inch in length, similar to young heros but the last whorl usually has 
three spiral rows of 12 to 14 bluish or reddish brown, squarish spots. The 
borders of the egg case are crenulated in contrast to the smooth borders of 
that in heros. This is a moderately deep-water species. Not uncommon from 
I to 63 fathoms. 

Lunatia groenlandica Moller Greenland Moon-shell 

Plate 22k 

Arctic Seas to off New Jersey. 

% to I inch in length, 4 to 5 well-rounded whorls. Spire about ^ the 
total length of the shell. Umbilicus very small, mostly covered over by the 
callus-like swelling of the top of the columella. Suture fine, deeply indented, 
bordered below by a weakly raised spiral swelling. Shell white, covered by 
a thin, smooth, greenish-yellow periostracum. Operculum chitinous, translucent, light-tan, paucispiral. Moderately common offshore. 

Lunatia leivisi Gould Lewis' Moon-shell 

Plate 2411 

British Columbia to Lower California. 

3 to 5 inches in length, moderately heavy. Whorls globose, slightly 
shouldered a little distance below the suture. Umbilicus deep, round and 
narrow. Characterized by the brown-stained, rather small, button-like callus 
partially obscuring the top edge of the umbilicus. A very common species 
found in shallow water to 25 fathoms. They are more commonly found in 
the summer months. Do not confuse with P. draconis. 



190 Afnerican Seashells 

Lunatia pallida Broderip and Sowerby Pale Northern Moon-shell 

Figure 43c 

Arctic Seas to off North Carolina. Arctic Seas to California. 

1% to 1% inches in length, not quite so wide, smooth, pure-white in 
color, and covered with a thin, yellowish white periostracum. Parietal wall 
moderately thickened with a white glaze. Umbilicus almost closed to slischtlv 
open. Commonly dredged offshore in cold northern waters. In the Atlantic, 
this species rarely exceeds i inch in length. P. groenlandica Moller may be 
this species. 



Subfamily SININAE 
Genus Sinum Roding 1798 

Sinum perspectivum Say Common Baby's Ear 
