patches of light orange-brown. 9 columella folds, the lower 7 being very 
weak. An uncommon species considered a choice collector's item. Formerly 
known as M. fergusoni Sowerby. 

Mitra swainsoni antillensis Dall Antillean Miter 

North Carolina to Florida and the West Indies. 

3 inches in length, about M as wide, with the aperture half as long as 
the entire shell. 10 whorls smooth, except for 5 or 6 weak spiral threads on 
the upper fourth of the whorl. Columella with 4 slanting, spiral folds, the 
largest being the uppermost. Color grayish white with a light-brown to olive 
periostracum. Short siphonal canal slightly recurved. Rare. 

Mitra nodulosa Gmelin Beaded Miter 

Plate 26b 

North Carolina to Florida and the West Indies. 

% to I inch in length, solid, glossy, orange to brownish orange in color, 
and with about 1 7 long, axial riblets which are rather neatly beaded. Suture 
deep, with the whorls slightly shouldered. Columella folds 3, large and 
white. A common species frequently washed ashore or found under rocks at 
low tide. 

Mitra styria Dall Dwarf Deepsea Miter 

Lower Florida Keys and the West Indies. 

/4 inch in length, fusiform in shape, moderately fragile and ashen-white 






MITRIDAE 249 

in color. lo whorls. Characterized by the numerous, very small, beaded, 
axial riblets and the thin, gray periostracum. Columella folds 5, the lower 2 
being very weak. Nuclear whorls small, smooth and pointed. Commonly 
dredged from 30 to 333 fathoms. 

Mitra barbadejisis Gmelin Barbados Miter 

Plate 26d 
Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

1 to 1% inches in length, slender, with the aperture wide below and 
half the length of the entire shell. Characterized by its yellow-brown to fawn 
color which has an occasional fleck of grayish white. Aperture tan within. 
Columella with 5 slanting folds. The sides of the spire are almost flat. Weak 
spiral threads are often present especially in the earlier whorls. A common 
species under rocks at low tidje. 

Mitra hendersoni Rehder Henderson's Miter 

Plate 26c 

