Coast is about eight years, its maximum age twenty-five years. The Common Blue Adussel (Mytilus edulis) grows to about two inches the first year, 
to four inches the second year but, beyond this, it grows very little although 
it may live for a total of seven or eight years. The Soft Shell Clam {My a 
arenaria) takes about five years to reach an edible size of three or four inches 
and may live for ten years. The AVashington Clam {Saxidounis imttalli) lives 
ten to fifteen years or longer, while Nuttall's Gaper Clam {Schizothaenis 
nuttalli) may survive for seventeen years. 



Life of the Cla?ns 



HOW THEY FEED 



35 



Normally one does not think of clams and oysters as being very active 
feeders and certainly, in comparison with the voracious methods of fish 
and squid, the bivalves are rather peaceful eaters. Yet in their characteristic 
way they are highly efficient and, in proportion to their size, possess a large 
and varied menu. Most clams feed on minute plants and, in a relatively short 
time, can filter from the sea water an extraordinary number of living diatoms 
and dinoflagellates — microscopic, swimming plants — and protozoa of the 
ocean. A few genera, such as the small Cuspidaria and Foromya clams, are 
carnivorous and feed upon small living or dead animals, usually crustaceans 
and annelid worms. 




Figure i i. Extended animals of some bivalves, showing various types of siphons. 

a, Mya arenaria Linne; b, Tellina agilis Stimpson; c, Tagelus plebeius Solander; 

d, Eiisis directus Conrad. (From A. E. Verrill 1873.) 

The bivalves fall into two general classes of feeders — suspension feeders 
which merely pump water through their mantle cavity and thus obtain freeswimming or suspended creatures from the water; or deposit feeders which 
suck up food from the muddy bottom with their long, mobile inhalant siphons. Among the suspension feeders are the oysters, scallops, venus clams, 
cockles, the shipworms and many others. They may or may not possess 
siphons, but when present these are generally short. The deposit feeders 
include such forms as Tellina, Macoma and Abra which all have long siphons. 

Whether food is taken in through the inhalant siphon as in the tellins or 
through a slit in the mantle as in the scallops, it must pass over the gills. These 
filament-like organs are covered by a thin sheet of mucus. Food passing 
through the gills becomes ensnarled in the mucus which is transported by 
water currents and myriads of tiny, hair-like cilia. Mucus is constantly be36 



American Seashells 


