7 to 1 1 slits. Girdle reddish brown with weak maculations; covered with 
minute, elongate scales which do not overlap each other. 15 to 18 gill lamellae, similar to those in albus. Common from i to 80 fathoms. Do not 
confuse with Tonicella marmorea Fabr. whose girdle is naked. 

Subgenus Lepidozona Pilsbry 1892 
Ischnochiton mertensi Middendorff Mertcn's Chiton 

Aleutians to Lower California, 



ISCHNOCHITONID AE 3 2 3 

I to 1V2 inches in length, rather oval in shape. Color variable: commonly yellowish with dark reddish brown streaks and maculations. Central 
areas with strong, longitudinal ribs and smaller, lower cross ridges which 
give a netted appearance. Jugal area V-shaped and with 5 to 6 smooth longitudinal ribs. Lateral areas raised, smoothish and with a few prominent warts. 
Anterior valves with 30 or more radial rows of warts which are largest 
near the girdle. Interior whitish, or rarely tinged with pink. Girdle with alternating yellowish and reddish bands; covered with tiny, low, smooth, splitpea scales. Very abundant just offshore, especially in the northern part of 
its range. 

Iscknochiton calif orniensis Berry Trellised Chiton 

Southern California to Lower California. 

I to 1% inches in length, oval to oblong, heavily sculptured. Color a 
dull-greenish with yellowish splotches and with a dark-brown area on the 
top of each valve. Central area with longitudinal and cross ribs which give a 
strong netted appearance. Lateral areas raised and with 4 rows of prominent 
beads. Posterior edge of valves serrated with about 20 small tooth-shaped 
beads. Anterior valve with 20 to 27 strongly granular ribs. Girdle closely 
packed with convex, tiny, split-pea scales. Moderately common and formerly thought to be /. clathratus Reeve which, however, is only from the 
Panamic Province to the south. 

Ischnochiton cooperi Pilsbry Cooper's Chiton 

Southern California. 

I to 1% inches in length, rather oval in shape. Color olive-green to 
olive-brown and clouded with light-blue. Central area with closely packed, 
sharp, longitudinal ribs which are finely striated. Jugal area with the same 
type of ribs and with its anterior end having about 10 notches. Lateral areas 
raised and with 4 to 8 irregular rows of prominent, rounded warts. 
Interior of valves bluish. Girdle covered with tiny, flat, striated, split-pea 
scales. Uncommon. 

Ischnochiton palmulatiis Pilsbry Big-end Chiton 

Southern California. 

% inch in length, oblong and with the posterior valve massive and 
greatly swollen. Color of valves yellowish brown to light grayish green 
with dark blackish green in the areas just above the girdle. Central areas 
carinate at the top, with 20 to 30 strong, rounded, longitudinal ribs. Lateral 



324 American Seashells 

areas greatly raised and with 2 convex, strong ribs of coarse beads. Anterior 
valve with 9 convex, beaded ribs. Posterior valve very high, convex and 
