rather fuzzy, gray-brown periostracum. Aperture enamel-white. Uncommon from 16 to 204 fathoms. 



CANCELLARIIDAE 2 5 3 

Genus Narona H. and A. Adams 1854 
Subgenus Progabbia Dall 191 8 

Narona cooperi Gabb Cooper's Nutmeg 

Plate 24y, figure 55c 

Monterey, California, to Lower California. 

2 to 2/4 inches in length, moderately heavy; columella with 2 small 
spiral folds. Whorls slightly shouldered, with about a dozen to 15 narrow 
axial ribs which at the top bear a single, low, sharp knob. Color brownish 
cream with a dozen or so narrow, brown spiral bands. Aperture orangecream. Outer lip sometimes with numerous white, glossy, spiral cords on 
the inside. An uncommon, deep-water species, occasionally brought up in 
fish nets. Said to grow to 7 inches in length. 

Genus Trigonostoma Blainville 1827 
Trigonostoma tenerum Philippi Philippi's Nutmeg 

Figure 55d 

Southern half of Florida. 

% inch in length, fairly thin, but a quite strong shell. 4 whorls, strongly 
shouldered with the upper part of the whorl smooth and flat, and the sides 
with 3 to 5 spiral rows of strong nodules or blunt beads. Umbilicus very 
deep and funnel-shaped. Color light orangish brown. Uncommon just offshore. 

Trigonostoma rugosuin Lamarck (in the subgenus Bivetiella Wenz 1943) 
is similar, but heavier, whitish with brownish maculations, without an umbilicus, and with about 8 strong axial ribs crossed by spiral threads. Known as 
the Rough Nutmeg. It is rare in most areas of the West Indies, and has not 
been reported from the United States. 

Genus Admete Kroyer 1842 
Admete couth ouyi Jay Common Northern Admete 

Figure 55a 

Arctic Seas to Massachusetts. Arctic Seas to San Diego, California. 

% to % inch in length, moderately thick, with 6 whorls. Suture wavy, 
well-impressed. Sculpture coarsely reticulate, often beaded or with the axial 
cords the strongest. Columella strongly arched and bearing 2 to 5 very weak, 
spiral folds near the middle. Shell dull white, covered with a fairly thick, 
gray-brown periostracum. Commonly dredged in cold waters. There are 
several other deep-water species on both of our coasts but they occur in 
very deep water. 



254 American Seashells 

Family MARGINELLIDAE 

