5 mm. in diameter, planorboid, well-compressed, 4 whorls, opaque-white, 
with a glossy sheen. Outer surface covered with numerous, crowded, spiral, 
incised lines. Umbilicus with rounded sides, deep, rather narrow. 50 to 100 
fathoms. Locally common. 

Subgenus Solariorbis Conrad 1865 
Vitrinella beaui Fischer Beau's Vitrinella 

North Carolina to Florida and the West Indies. 



VITRINELLIDAE 139 

Vs inch in diameter, strong, opaque-white, depressed, 4 whorls. Top of 
whorls rounded, slightly concave just below the fine suture; bearing 5 or 6 
major, smooth, spiral threads on top with numerous, much finer threads between. Periphery bordered above and below by a major cord. Umbilicus 
widely funnel-shaped, deep. Outer lip crenulate above. Not uncommon in 
shallow water. One of our largest American Vitrinellid species. Provisionally 
placed in this subgenus. 

Genus Pseudomalaxts P. Fischer 1885 
Fseudomalaxis nobilis \^errill Noble False Dial 

Virginia to southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

% inch in diameter, dull-white, planorboid, with a very flat spire and a 
wide concave, non-umbilicate base. Periphery of shell flat, bordered above 
and below by one or two spiral cords of small beads. Aperture squarish. 
Operculum round, multispiral with a chitinous pimple on the inside. A rare 
and choice collector's item. Deep water. 70 fathoms. 

Fseudomalaxis balesi Pilsbry and McGinty Bales' False Dial 

Palm Beach and along the Lower Keys, Florida. 

1.8 mm. in diameter, 3 to 4 whorls, semitranslucent-white to burnt 
sienna. Sculpture of fine, spiral striae and strong, widely spaced, radial ribs. 
Peripheral zone flattened or concave between 2 projecting nodulose keels. 
Under rocks. Moderately common to rare. This genus was formerly placed 
in the family Architectonicidae. 

Genus Teinostoma H. and A. Adams 1854 

Shells usually about 2 to 3 mm. in diameter, depressed, glossy, white, 
usually smooth, and with an umbilical callus. They are very distinctive little 
shells, but require a high-powered lens for their inspection. We have figured 
only one species, but have included a key from the work of Pilsbry and 
McGinty (1945) (see pi. lyy). 

Key to the Florida Teinostoma 

1. Umbilical callus encircled by a keel. 1.7 mm.; Palm Beach to Cape Florida. 

1 2 to 50 faths. T. (Ajinulicalhis) lituspalmarum Pils. and McG. 

2. Umbilical callus and columellar lobe not closing the umbilicus completely; 

3 mm.; southeast Forida. 80 fms 

