

COLUMBELLIDAE 221 

Genus Anachis H. and A. Adams 1853 
Anachis avara Say Greedy Dove-shell 

Plate 2566 

New Jersey to both sides of Florida to Texas. 

% to V-y inch in length, moderately elongate, with about a dozen smooth 
axial plications on the upper half of each whorl. Spiral, incised lines very 
weak or absent, but strong at the base. Aperture narrow, a Httle less than 
half the length of the shell. Weak, smooth varix present. The 3 nuclear 
whorls are smooth and translucent-white. Next few whorls with numerous 
axial riblets. Color yellowish brown to dark gray-brown over which may be 
seen a faint pattern of irregular, white, large dots. Sometimes with darkbrown specklings. 4 weak teeth inside inner lip. A very common low-tide 
mark species. 

Anachis obesa C. B. Adams Fat Dove-shell 

Virginia to Florida, the Gulf States and the West Indies. 

%6 to ^ inch in length, moderately wide, dull grayish with i or 2 subdued, spiral brown bands in some specimens. Small, sharp axial ribs are numerous; spiral incised lines numerous, not crossing ribs. There is a fairly 
strong, occasionally knobbed, spiral cord immediately below the suture. 
Varix large, smooth and rounded. Body whorl behind it usually smoothish. 
Parietal shield faintly developed, but with a sharp edge. Inner wall of outer 
lip with about 3 to 5 small teeth. The form ostreicola Melville from northwest Florida is dark-brown and with stronger spiral threads or wider incised 
lines. This is a common shallow-water species. 

Anachis translirata Ravenel Well-ribbed Dove-shell 

Plate 25flF 

Massachusetts to northeast Florida. 

Similar to avara, but with about twice as many axial ribs which run the 
entire depth of each whorl, and with strong incised spiral lines throughout. 
Outer lip with about a dozen tiny teeth. Color drab yellowish to brown, but 
sometimes with wide, subdued, spiral bands of darker brown. Dredged commonly just offshore usually from 2 to 20 fathoms. 

Anachis penicillata Carpenter Penciled Dove-shell 

San Pedro to Lower California. 

1/5 inch in length, rather slender, with 6 whorls, of which the first 2 
nuclear ones are smooth, the remainder with about 1 5 strong axial riblets per 



222 American Seashelh 

whorl, which are made slightly uneven by numerous very fine spiral threads. 
Color translucent-cream with sparse spottings of brown. Common under 
rocks between tide marks. 

Genus Nitidella Swainson 1840 
Nitidella ocellata Gmelin White-spotted Dove-shell 

