
1 to I ^ inches in length. Color orangish, greenish, brown or grayish, 
commonly banded with flame-like white spots. Aperture white. Callus on 
columella heavy. Lower lip projects downward. Operculum calcareous. 
The form named <tlawname>crenulatus Gmelin</tlawname> is merely less tuberculate. 

Section Taenioturbo Woodring 1928 
Turbo canaliculatus Hermann Channeled Turban 

Plate 3 a 

Lower Florida Keys and the West Indies. 

2 to 3 inches in length. A deep smooth channel runs just below the 
suture. Surface glossy. 1 6 to 18 strong, spiral, smooth cords on body whorl. 
Aperture white. Umbilicus narrow. Operculum pale-brown inside with 3 to 
4 whorls, and white, smoothish and convex on the outside. This is the handsomest Turbo in the Western Atlantic, and considered a great rarity in 
American waters. Formerly T. spenglerianus Gmelin. 

Genus Astraea Roding 1798 
Subgenus Astraliimi Link 1807 

Astraea longispina Lamarck Long-spined Star-shell 

Plate 3 k, m 
Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 2 % inches in width; shell low, almost flat on its underside. Periphery of whorls with strong, flattened, triangular spines. Either with or 
without an umbilicus. Aperture silvery inside. A form which has an elevated 
spire and is more spinose (pi. 3m) was known as A. spinulosa Lamarck. 
Short-spined specimens of this species are often erroneously called A. brevispina Lamarck. 124 American Se ash ells 

The latter, however, is a distinct species from the West 
Indies which is characterized by a splotch of bright orange-red around the 
umbihcal region (see pi. 3I). 

Astraea americana Gmelin American Star-shell 

Plate 31 

Southeast Florida. 

1 to I /4 inches in length, % as wide. Characterized by its sharp-angled 
spire, flat sides, white to cream color, and by the numerous, long, wavy, 
weak, axial ribs. Base of shell with 5 to 8 small, finely fimbriated, spiral 
cords, and a small ridge at the base of the columella which has about a dozen 
small axial ridges. Commonly found under rocks at low tide on the Lower 
Florida Keys. Operculum variable, but usually thick, convex and with a 
small or large dimple. 

The subspecies, <tlawname>imbricata Gmelin</tlawname>, from the West Indies has stronger, 
longer and fewer axial ribs which extend to the flat base of the shell and are 
hollow at their ends. The subspecies <tlawname>guadeloupensis Crosse</tlawname> from the Greater 
Antilles is intermediate between these two. Both moderately common at 
low water. 

Subgenus Lithopoma Gray 1850 
Astraea caelata Gmelin Carved Star-shell 

Plate 3h 
