the Wgsi Indies bryerea Montagu 

3.0 to 5.0 mm.; white; 1 1 to 14 ribs; suture sometimes deep; North Carolina to Florida and the West Indies chesneli Michaud (PI. 2 2u) 

E. 4 to 5 mm.; ribs strong but disappearing on base; spiral threads strongest 

on base; white to rusty; southeast Florida and the \\ est Indies 

vndticostata C. B. Adams 
6 to 7 mm.; 25 to 28 low, weak ribs, spirally striated or pitted between; 
glossy; white to yellowish; North Carolina to the West Indies 
deciissata Montagu 

F. Sculpture strongly cancellate G 

Not strongly cancellate; low, spiral threads dominant; axial ribs faint; 

weakly cancellate; 5 to 10 mm.; southeast Florida and the West 
Indies striosa C. B. Adams 

G, 5 to 7 mm.; white; strongly cancellate; depressed interspaces large and 
square; southeast Florida and the West Indies cancellata Philippi 



138 AjT/erican Seas he Us 

4 to 4.5 mm.; glassy-white; depressed interspaces small, rounded; Texas 
to the West Indies and Bermuda . sagraiana Orbigny 

Family VITRINELLIDAE 
Genus Vitrinella C. B. Adams 1850 

Shell minute, thin, depressed, umbihcate, and with 3 to 4 subtubular 
whorls. The umbilicus has rather flattened walls and is usually bounded by a 
spiral cord. The rounded aperture is oblique, with a thin lip, its upper margin 
arching forward. Columella only moderately thickened. Operculum corneous, thin, multispiral. There are many species in American waters with 
quite a number of genera and subgenera. The family is undergoing considerable change under the current research by H. A. Pilsbry. We are including only three examples of this interesting group. Consult recent numbers 
of The Nautilus. 



Subgenus Vitrinella s. str. 
Vitrinella helicoidea C. B. Adams Helix Vitrinella 

North Carolina to Florida and the West Indies. 

2 mm. in diameter, planorboid, 4 whorls, spire moderately raised. Translucent-white, glossy, smooth. Umbilicus round, very deep, moderately wide, 
bounded by a small, spiral, smoothish thread. Wall of umbiHcus flattish. 
Columella strong, braced on the whorl above by a small, spreading callus. 
Outer lip thin, sharp. Not uncommon in shallow water. This is the type of 
the genus. 

Subgenus Circulus Jeffreys 1865 
Vitrinella multistriata Verrill Threaded Vitrinella 

Plate 17V 

North Carolina to Florida. 

