rigid. This is accomplished by injecting blood into the foot. The bulbous 
end serves as an anchor while the clam withdraws the foot and pulls its 
entire shell deeper into the mud. In the case of the Razor Clam, this action 
is accompanied by a jet of water against the mud ahead. The dislodged mud 
is washed up the sides of the shell and out the burrow. The action is similar 
to the pile driver that opens a way for the pile by a somewhat similar stream 
of water. 

Because of its long, powerful foot the Razor Clam is capable of leaping. 
Generally, when this clam is lying on the surface of the mud, the foot is 
bent back under the shell and is then suddenly made rigid with the result 
that it is straightened out with great rapidity. In some cases the animal 
may turn itself end over end. 

Many types of clams are especially adapted to boring into hard clay, 
shale, sandstone and concrete. The Date Mussels, <tname>Lithophaga</tname>, possess acidsecreting glands as an aid to penetrating limestone. The shell of the clam 
would of course be dissolved by this acid were it not for the thick, protective 
covering of periostracum. The Saxicave Borers, <tname>Hiatella</tname>, may live attached 
by a byssus on surfaces that they cannot penetrate, or they may bore into 
soft rock. The boring of the adults is wholly mechanical and is accomplished 
by rubbing the edges of their shell valves against the rock. Hiatella stays near 
enough to the surface to allow its siphons to protrude just outside its coneshaped burrow. In three years the burrow is only three fourths of an inch 
in length and, after eight years of constant grinding and new gowth of 
shell, it is only one and a half inches in length. 

The shipworms burrow long distances into the wood but retain contact 
with the "outside world" by means of the long fleshy, tube-like extension 
of the body. Boring is accomplished by the two valves at the anterior end of 
the tunnel. The denticulated ridges of the shell are the cutting tools, and 
the foot and muscles aid in rotating the shells back and forth. Burrowing 
may progress at the rate of as much as four inches a month. In the genus 
<tname>Bankia</tname>, at the posterior end of the worm-like animal there are two tiny, 
feathery pallets. These are used to plug the entrance of the burrow, thus 
giving protection from enemies, changes in salinity or other adverse conditions. When the shipworm is undisturbed, the pallets are drawn inside 
and the siphons extended into the water for breathing and feeding. 



CHAPTER IV 

Lives of the 
Other MoUusks 



In addition to the bivalves and snail classes, the mollusks include three other 
groups which are not so frequently seen at the seashore and whose combined 
number of living species probably does not exceed two thousand. Two 
of these classes, the <tname>Amphineiira</tname> or Chitons and the <tname>Scaphopoda</tname> or Tuskshells, are among the lowliest and most sluggish of the mollusks, but the 
third class, the well-known <tname>Cephalopoda</tname>, including the squid and octopuses, 
contains the largest, fastest and most ferocious of all backboneless animals. 

THE SQUID AND OCT 0?\JSYS— <tname>CEPHALOPODA</tname> 

The octopuses and the giant squid have been spine-chilling characters 
in adventure tales from the days of the ancient Greeks to the undersea film 
thrillers of Hollywood. Nothing seems more appropriate for a horror scene 
then the sudden appearance of a tentacle-lashing, beady-eyed octopus just 
as the hero-diver finds the long-lost treasure chest. And few authors of 
strange sailing voyages can resist retelling the numerous instances in which 
