
Nerita fulgurans Gmelin Antillean Nerite 

Plate 4c 

Southeast Florida, the West Indies and Bermuda. 

% to I inch in length, very similar to N. tessellata, but with a lightercolored, yellowish gray operculum. The spiral ridges on the shell are more 
numerous, the color patterns blurred, the aperture relatively wider, and the 
teeth more prominent. This is a salt to brackish-water inhabitant of protected shores, and is abundant only in certain restricted localities. It is 
seldom represented or properly labeled in private collections. 

Genus Puperita Gray 1857 
Puperita pupa Linne Zebra Nerite 

Plate 4e 
Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

Vs to Mi inch in length, thin, smooth, chalky-white with black, axial, 
zebra-like stripes. Aperture and smooth operculum light-yellow. Lives in 
small, placid pools above the high-water mark. Common in the West Indies, 
rare in Florida. 

Genus Neritina Lamarck 18 16 
Subgenus Vitta Morch 1852 

Neritina virginea Linne Virgin Nerite 

Plate 4! 

Florida to Texas, the West Indies and Bermuda. 

% inch in length, smooth, glossy, very variable in color pattern and 
shades — blacks, browns, purples, reds, whites, olive — crooked lines, dots, 
mottlings, zebra-like stripes and sometimes spirally banded. Parietal area 
smooth, convex, white to yellow, and with a variable number of small, 
irregular teeth. Operculum usually black. A very common, widespread 
inhabitant of intertidal, brackish-water flats. 

Neritina reclivata Say Olive Nerite 

Plate 4g 

Florida to Texas and the West Indies. 

% inch in length, glossy, often with the spire eroded away. Ground 
color brownish green, olive or brownish yellow with numerous axial lines 
of black-brown or lavender. Operculum black to slightly brownish. Common in brackish water and also found in fresh-water springs near the seashore 
in Florida. 

A globose form or subspecies (?) with a short spire and more convex 
whorls replaces the higher-spired, typical form from Texas to Panama, but 



130 



Alii eric an Se ash ells 
