rounded varix. Columella smooth. Weak spiral cord present on inside of 
aperture on the upper parietal wall. Whorls slightly shouldered. No notch 
in lower part of outer lip. Nuclear whorl smooth, glassy and rounded. Uncommon from I to 50 fathoms. 

Bailya parva C. B. Adams from the West Indies differs in not having its 
whorls shouldered, having weaker spiral cords, and in occasionally having 
brown coloring. 

Genus Antillophos Woodring 1928 
Antillophos candei Orbigny Cande's Phos 

Plate 25U 

North Carolina to south Florida and Cuba. 



232 American Seashells 

I to i^ inches in length, slightly less than half as wide; strong, heavy 
and pure white. Last whorl with about 13 small spiral cords and about 24 
stronger axial ribs. Where they cross, there are small, rounded beads. Outer 
lip near the low part has a shallow notch. Inside the lip are about a dozen 
prominent, spiral ridges. Columella with 2 low spiral ridges near the base, 
sometimes weaker ones above. Upper parietal wall with a strong spiral cord 
running back into the aperture. Nuclear whorls smooth, glossy, white and 
slightly carinate. Very commonly dredged from 20 to 100 fathoms. 

Genus Engina Gray 1839 
Engina turbinella Kiener White-spotted Engina 

Plate 25W 

Lower Florida Keys and the West Indies. 

Vs to y2 inch in length, dark purple-brown with about 10 low, white 
knobs per whorl on the periphery. Base with 2 to 4 spiral rows of much 
smaller white knobs. Microscopic spiral threads numerous. Aperture thickened and constricted by 4 to 5 whitish teeth on the outer lip and by a twist 
of the columella just above the narrow siphonal canal. Do not confuse with 
Mitra sulcata which has several columellar plications. Common under rocks 
at low tide. 



Genus Searlesia Harmer 191 6 
Searlesia dira Reeve Dire Whelk 

Figure 501! 

Alaska to Monterey, California. 

I to I /4 inches in length, half as wide, with the brown aperture half the 
length of the dark gray, fusiform shell. Outer lip thin but strong and with 
fine serrations which extend back into the shell as small spiral threads. Columella arched, chocolate-brown and glossy. Whorls in spire with 9 to 1 1 low, 
rounded axial ribs, and all of the exterior with numerous fine, unequal-sized 
spiral threads. Siphonal canal short and slightly twisted to the left. A common shallow-water species commonly from northern California to the north. 

Genus Coluhraria Schumacher 18 17 
Colubraria lanceolata Menke Arrow Dwarf Triton 

