Genus Epitonhnn Roding 1798 (Scala) 
Subgenus Epitonium s. str. 

Epitonium krebsi Morch Krebs' Wentletrap 

Figure 406 

South half of Florida to the Lesser Antilles. 

V2 to % inch in length, stout. With umbihcus fairly narrow to wide, and 
very deep. 7 to 8 whorls attached by the costae (10 to 12 per whorl). 
China-white, rarely with a trace of brown to pinkish brown undertones. 
Moderately common from a few feet to 160 fathoms. E. swifti Morch and 
E. contorqiiata Dall are this species. 

Do not confuse with E. occidentale Nyst (Western Atlantic Wentletrap) 
from the same areas. It is not so stout, has 1 2 to 15 costae per whorl, a very 



164 American Seashells 

small umbilicus or none, and the shoulder of the whorls is somewhat flattened. 
It is not common. 

Epitonmm tollini Bartsch Tollin's Wentletrap 

West Coast of Florida. 

Y2 inch in length, slender, no umbilicus. 9 to 10 whorls strongly convex; 
suture deep. Each whorl has from 11 to 16 costae which are not shouldered, 
but are rounded, on top. They often line up one below the other. Outer lip 
thick and reflected. Inner lip much smaller. Color china-white, with the 
first few whorls a very faint amber-brown. Fairly common just off the outer 
beaches. Do not confuse with E. humphrey si whose costae are angular at 
the top, 

Epitonium humphrey si Kiener Humphrey's Wentletrap 

Plate 2 2d 

Cape Cod, Massachusetts, to Florida and to Texas. 

% to % inch in length, fairly slender, thick-shelled, and without an 
umbilicus. Color dull-white. Suture deep. The 9 to 10 convex whorls each 
have about 8 to 9 costae that are somewhat angled at the shoulder. Costae 
usually thick and strong. Outer and lower part of the apertural lip thickened 
and slightly flaring. Common from shore to 52 fathoms. Do not confuse 
with E. angulatum which is not so slender, is glossier, has thinner costae that 
are usually more angular at the shoulders. 

Epitonium ehurneum Potiez and Michaud listed by Percy Morris (1951, 
p. 122) does not occur in American waters. His illustrations are probably 
those of E, commune Linne from Europe. 

Epitonium angulatum Say Angulate Wentletrap 

Plate 22b 
New York to Florida and to Texas. 

